For $2,100, you could buy over a dozen upper-quality mechanical keyboards. Alternatively, you could buy just one mechanical keyboard kit. Costing the same as a desktop computer, The Icebreaker keyboard commands one of the highest price tags you'll see for a keyboard, and that's more due to its appearance than its capabilities.

The Icebreaker, spotted by Tom's Hardware, became available for preorder on Thursday. The prohibitively priced peripheral is the primary product from Serene Industries, which founder Denis Agarkov describes as an “outlet for creativity, love of materials, experimentation, and an endless exercise in learning new things."

In a February interview with Design Milk, Agarkov said that the profile view of New York City’s Flatiron skyscraper inspired the keyboard’s design. The building opened in 1902 and measures 285 feet tall with a steel frame and distinct prism shape.

Getty The Flatiron Building. The Flatiron Building. Getty Serene Industries The Icebreaker tries to match the Flatiron's shape. The Icebreaker tries to match the Flatiron's shape. Serene Industries Serene Industries Another angle. Another angle. Serene Industries The Icebreaker tries to match the Flatiron's shape. Serene Industries Another angle. Serene Industries

In turn, the Icebreaker’s profile view shows a sharp wedge shape that’s uncommon, but not unheard of, in keyboards striving for a striking appearance.

"Viewed from the right angle, it seems to be as flat as a sheet of paper," Agarkov told Null Society in January ahead of the keyboard's launch.

Serene heavily advertises the aluminum build of the keyboard, saying that it's a "fully CNC'd, solid block 6061 aluminum" alloy chassis. The Icebreaker isn’t an outlier in using aluminum; numerous companies sell aluminum alloy keyboard cases for a few hundred dollars. An alternative to cheaper plastic, aluminum is popular for keyboard durability, weight, and custom touches around details like the case's finish and color. The Icebreaker case, being a unified block rather than a top and bottom piece fused together, makes for a unique, massive (17.7×1.7×0.9 inches) look.

The keycaps, which Serene sells separately for $415, are “fully aluminum with about 800 micro-perforations that make up the legends," Serene's website says, "allowing the LED light to pass through.”

A close-up of the porous keycaps. Credit: Serene Industries

The holes are 400 microns in diameter, per the company's Instagram page, which suggests that users can feel the holes with their fingertips. Using tiny holes to construct key legends is something I haven’t seen in mechanical keyboard kits before. It gives the Icebreaker's keycaps a digital vibe that seems tedious and costly to make, contributing to the keyboard's price. Despite the openings' tininess, I'm still worried about dust and debris with a keyboard littered with holes.