According to a report out of Korea, Samsung is cutting down significantly on its plans for 2025 Galaxy foldables as it reflects on the Galaxy Z Fold 6 and Flip 6, which ultimately failed to meet expectations.

Since the initial launch of its foldables, Samsung has been ramping up production numbers with each new generation. The company continued planning to sell more and more of its new devices each year, and it was working for a while. However, under increased competition from other brands, Samsung started to slip, and the Galaxy Z Fold 6 and Flip 6 were reportedly the straw that broke the camel’s back, so to say.

A report from ETNews (via @Jukanlosreve) claims that Samsung is planning to cut production plans for the Galaxy Z Fold 7 and Flip 7 to a total of around 5 million units – 3 million for the Flip, 2 million for the Fold. That’s down quite a lot from the 8.2 million run for the Galaxy Z Fold 6 and Flip 6. Samsung was expecting around 10% growth for its latest foldable generation, but failed to get close to that figure. Initial pre-order volume was lower, as were the overall sales, though the report doesn’t bring out any specific figures.

As we reported in July, Samsung relies heavily on existing foldable owners and upgrades to push its foldables, so the lower pre-order figures certainly didn’t set the stage for a successful year.

Samsung reportedly isn’t alone in lowering its foldable forecast for 2025, as analyst Ross Young says that other foldable brands in China are also trimming down their plans. While Samsung is trimming down numbers, the company is reportedly planning to explore new form factors for foldables moving forward.

Meanwhile, the report brings out that Samsung is planning to boost production of its Galaxy S series, planning a production run of 37.4 million units for the Galaxy S25 series, up about 7% from the Galaxy S24 series. The Galaxy S25 “Slim” would add another 3 million to that total.

More on Samsung:

Follow Ben: Twitter/X, Threads, Bluesky, and Instagram