Guest
Guest
Login | Sign Up
Nintendo Life
Guest
Login or Sign Up
Shuji Utsumi thinks the model is "very interesting"
Sega's Western boss has revealed that the company is internally discussing the idea of creating its own subscription-based game service.
Speaking to the BBC about subscription services such as Xbox Game Pass and PlayStation Plus, Shuji Utsumi said that such services are "very interesting" and that Sega is currently "evaluating some opportunities".
He added:
We're thinking something - and discussing something - we cannot disclose right now.
This means Sega would join the likes of Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo in offering a monthly subscription which offers access to games.
Given its history, it makes sense for Sega to investigate a subscription model. It is one of the industry's veterans and has been making games since the '70s. With such a deep back catalogue to call upon, this kind of service would be instantly appealing to gamers of all ages.
Sega recently delisted over 60 titles from digital storefronts, which would suggest that a move into the world of subscription-based gaming is moving at a reasonably brisk pace. It also recently delisted Mega Drive / Genesis Classics collection from the eShop, Xbox and PSN stores.
Select Mega Drive / Genesis games are currently available via Nintendo Switch Online.
Never too late, eh?
Battle of the bands
Game to be delisted on 6th December
[source bbc.co.uk]
About Damien McFerran
Damien has been writing professionally about tech and video games since 2007 and oversees all of Hookshot Media's sites from an editorial perspective. He's also the editor of Time Extension, the network's newest site, which – paradoxically – is all about gaming's past glories.
Comments 77
Depending on what they add to the Service and if the Price is reasonable I don't mind them doing this otherwise not interested.
Yeah I'm not exactly giddy about paying for the same Genesis games again thanks
I'm really curious how this will be deployed if it happens at all. Will it be an app?
I do half-wonder if they're planning some kind of live service digital-only console like what Atari did with their Atari VCS. Might that have something to do with the Super Game project as well?
Regardless I think it's interesting to speculate and honestly if it means we get Sega games that aren't Genesis games, it'll be good.
As an option it could be great (although of course we need to actually see its contents, price etc. before judging it anyway), but I sure hope Sega will keep on actually selling its games, too!
With Genesis games already on NSO and no Sega console, this seems like a terrible idea
I hope this isn't the reason they delisted their games recently.
I was hoping it was just because they were making a new collection.
“Netflix-style”? How about SEGA-style? Sega pioneered the video game subscription service way back in 1994 with Sega Channel! (Yes, I’m old enough to have had it way back when). If Sega wants to do a sub service, they have every right! and I’d happily subscribe again, 30 years later!
fam, please just sell me the games so I can keep them for years 🥲
Sega just leaving money on the table for sought after arcade/Saturn/Dreamcast games is wild.
Sega tried this already in the late '00s with their "Play Sega" service. It failed miserably.
Unless they're prepared to make all new Mega Drive/Genesis / Master System / Saturn / Dreamcast games, they need to realize that anyone who would be interested in a service like this will be fully away aware that the company has been out of the game for so long, that even the most basic of hardware can perfectly emulate their entire library.
Even their Xbox/Xbox 360 games they published.
So... it would be a given their classics would be in the service. The real thing I'm watching is what NEW content they would have. Will it have online competition like F-Zero 99, Tetris 99, etc.? Cloud streaming of games? Download and own? It could be the best way for Sega to re-enter the competition without needing hardware. Considering the un-hardwaring of Microsoft these days, it's not a bad time for Sega to try.
Oh I see how it is. Sega delisted a lot of their classics on Steam and thinking they can offer this as a replacement?
It really depends on how they handle it on today's market, really. They did something like this once in the late 2000s and it didn't go well.
I also guess this is also the possible reason they're delisting their games lately.
I just....I'm just so tired of subscription services man. I'm not even in that big of position to complain, I'm not subscribed to that many, but I'm just so sick of them by this point. I always think back to the RedLetterMedia video with the nerd crew. With each new service that gets made, it just becomes so much more confusing and the more I just don't care. I'm a simple guy, I'd just like a simple transaction of "Here's X game for $X", rather than lumping them together for a big price and still not owning them. I like Genesis games and such, but I really don't see myself getting yet another subscription for them.
Seems like a bad idea. Just when I felt like Sega was finally turning things around too. I love a bunch of their back catalog, but without being a platform holder, I don’t know how they pull this off. Seems like a waste of resources. If google and their infinite resources couldn’t make stadia work, no way Sega can.
just go away already sega!! CANCER OF THE INDUSTRY!!!
This is a terrible idea for 2 main reasons:
1. Sega’s modern library is not nearly as compelling as they think it is. Unless they plan to repackage Genesis/Mega Drive games for the umpteenth time yet again.
2. Every non-PC gaming subscription service has failed if not launched by the platform holder. EA play was such a disaster it became a throw in for Xbox Game Pass. Same for whatever Ubi’s subscription is.
It doesn’t work because very, very few companies have the breadth of content to get gamers to open their wallets. A variety is required that needs others on board and that doesn’t happen if you’re not the platform holder
For non platform makers I feel like it is better to just fold themselves into one of the major subscriptions. Like how EA is folded into Gamepass (but is still available as a stand alone). It certainly gets me playing EA games I would normally ignore. People already have subscription fatigue from tv and a lot of people churn subscriptions.
Companies stay rent-seeking. The delisting of collections makes this extra gross.
Of course it's not much different from Nintendo closing the Wii/WiiU eshops full of Virtual Console games and then launching Switch Online. At least they waited until a generation changed over...
I don't understand why anyone but a platform holder feels they can get away with this. I love SEGA but they publish maybe 4, 5 worthwhile games a year at most? And I personally don't get around to all of them, nor would I expect anyone but the most diehard of fans to. The subscription would have to be pretty damn cheap for me to forgo just buying the games outright given the option.
Unless the idea is to not have the option...? If this is about their back catalogue and the delisting...yeah this seems rather scummy.
Please no. This industry doesn't need to go to it's downfall like the film industry. It's not going to be great if every developer will start with a subscription service.
If this means their lineup of Sega CD/32X/Saturn/Dreamcast games will FINALLY be released, in many cases for only the second time ever, this is huge news.
If it just means 50 Genesis games for $14.99 a month it's worthless.
I am hopeful, but cautiously so. Obviously physical collections would be more ideal, but I'll take Panzer Dragoon Saga by hook or by crook at this point.
Please don’t. Even with fill back catalogue, it’s not enough to justify a subscription.
What would even be on it lol?
We need less services as we’re just headed back to the old days of sky tv again.
I'm not 100% against this, but only if they finally start porting Saturn, Dreamcast and arcade games that we've been waiting for better access to since 2001.
I think a few people referenced this, but a while back they launched Sega Forever on mobile and said they wanted to get "everything" on there and it was gone in a couple years. They never got past the same 50 odd Genesis games and half-dozen Dreamcast games that always get ported.
They have the library to make something like this work, if it's priced competitively AND they dig up a lot more of their past.
I mean it's Sega. They're not really known for making the best decisions.
Subscriptions are unavoidable. The appeal of passive sales is just way too high for anyone to ignore. Like it or not, the people who want to pay $10 for Dynamite Cop or whatever are in the vast minority and most likely to hem & haw over the purchase while waiting for a sale. Subscriptions don't have the pressure to go on sale. People forget about the small ones. Gluttonous gamers load up every subscription. The drip feed hooks the reluctant customers to dip back in. Sega NSO has been popular, they don't want to be locked into Nintendo on that action. The app homogenizes the content and there's not pressure to provide extras on every individual release. This was inevitable as soon as NSO became successful.
Ugh. So thus ends the compilation sets I guess. And the sega tier of the Nintendo online catalog.
Sega shouldn’t bother imho. They’re overestimating their fanbase and wanting to spend money. Unless they fill it with Saturn and Dreamcast titles. Arcades as well. But even then I wouldn’t spend more than 5$ a month at most. And that’s pushing it. I have well over a thousand games in my backlog.
If it has Dreamcast titles onwards, I'm interested. Not bothered about any platform prior to that aside from Mega Drive, and I still have a physical compilation for that if/when Sega's NSO contract expires.
Why are they doing that?
RIP virtual console. I miss the option to buy old retro games on modern consoles.
I mean, feel free Sega. It'll just be less money for you from me, as I don't buy any subscription services. No ownership, not interested.
I usually don't care for video game subscriptions (e.g. NSO, PS+, Game Pass), but if Sega did it I would 100% subscribe.
Y'know maybe I'll postpone buying that ticket to Sonic 3 for the time being
I don't really subscribe unless I have to and luckily I very rarely feel like I have to. Not sure what all the suits are thinking, but when netflix started it and had everything, it was a cool idea. Divvy it up and everyone starts doing their own subscriptions, then not so much. Subscribe, rent, hire...but lord above whatever you do, don't own anything. IMakes me wonder how many subscriptions folk have on the go at any one time. Might be me just being a tight arse lol.
At least he didn’t call it a ‘Super Subscription’.. for Pete’s sake, Sega
Subscriptions are terrible. I may be the minority these days, but they add up to so much money per month when you have four video services, two shipping services, two or three game services, music services etc. NO THANKS.
I'd rather miss the content then have to pay a monthly fee.
I'd rather just buy the games I want for a flat price and be done with it. Much cheaper that way... which is why they'd rather you subscribe for the rest of your life!
Hey, Sega.. How about, instead of a monthly subscription, we pay upfront. I'd pay £299 for.. say.. a 4 year subscription to some Sega games. .. Maybe it'd come with a box we can plug into the telly, and a controller or two..?And then start adding new games into the mix. You could even charge extra for those "new" games.. Like maybe £39 for a new game? Gosh, that'd be cool.
One thing is for sure, they can't afford to compete with Game Pass.
No thanks .. same with ubisoft and ea subscriptions for old ass games you can get dirt cheap all over the place
sega, no. bad. dont make me take out the water spritzer i WILL use it
Ah, going back to what doesn’t work best, eh Sega? Wait, I don’t even play Sega games, why am I here? I’m sorry, I’ll go back to making mushroom and flower casserole.
Knowing Sega, it'll just be the Genesis app on NSO and maybe some of the modern Sonic and Yakuza games, lol.
I'm pretty satisfied with NSO(which already includes the Genesis app), so they'd have to do something special here.
No thanks Sega, no subscriptions please.
@NFrealinkling my thoughts exactly
I like the Mega Drive as part of the NSO, but if they are delisting old games to set up their own subscription that requires yet another account, I'd not be interested.
Just bring back OutRun 2006 and port some of their arcade back catalogue to modern systems.
No thanks, there is enough of that stuff out there.Rather go and sell more games on gog
I'm good, I have emulators and ROMs. In a world BLOATED with subscription services, I'd rather save money and play games I've already owned before...but for free...and more accurately.
Nintendo has the better way of doing it. The retro games available through NSO are more like a bonus than the actual main feature of the service
Being tacked on to NSO is as far as I'd go. I'm really fed up of subscriptions in general but of course with NSO, you need it for online play so I don't really have a choice.
I see Sega had not learn from OnLive and Stadia. I know they didn't mention cloud gaming but c'mon just comparing the service they're thinking about is similar to cloud gaming and it's not that good of an idea if they're planning to go that route. If it's like Virtual Console where you can purchase and download the game you want then it may stand a chance. It looks like this new Sega CEO is on a mission to bury Sega once again. I just don't get it, why does Sega never had a CEO that actually makes good decision for once, someone like Tom Kalinske.
Such a stupid idea, Sega.
Considering the games delisted from Xbox were games from the Dreamcast and Saturn consoles, they could have done collections from those two consoles. Especially seeing as Capcom Fighting Collection 2 will have several Dreamcast games on it.
Screw that noise.
This is probably the kind of garbage that other guy was referring towards when he said "People need to get used to the idea of not owning their games."
You're telling me I can pay $12.99 a month to play Sonic 2 and Columns? WHERE DO I SIGN UP!!?
Honestly they should buy Antstream. They could certainly do with the library and funding.
Another way to play the Genesis version of Virtua Fighter 2!
After censoring your games, you also want to get into a subscription service? I don't know whether to laugh or cry, but I weep for the little Lightsiyd who used to adore Sega.
"Take what you can!!! Give nothing back!!" - Jack Sparrow
No more subscriptions, arrrggh!
Shove it in the trash.
@Lightsiyd Censoring?
Cause we all need another subscription service at this point.
@Dinglehopper Exactly! This is my opinion, so there are others who will disagree with this, but I think NSO is exactly what an online service should be: an affordable way to play online, with the games serving as a great bonus. Sure, you might not be able to play tons of AAA games as soon as they release at no additional cost, but still, it’s great for both those who just want to play online and for those who want to experience or revisit both iconic and obscure old games from times that many people have cherished memories of. Again, this is my opinion; there are lots of people who are willing to pay a monthly cost to play a ton of major releases. But tl;dr: I like NSO because it’s cheap, functional, and comes with games I’d actually want to play. I know SEGA is a brand that is loved by many, but they should be prepared for a huge fan backlash if they lock their games behind a subscription service. Also, you might want to sleep with one eye open if you use emulators, though SEGA might not be as bad as Nintendo. This post was much longer than it should have been.
@sevex I can never get enough of them.
@Kingy Scott, is that you?
I don't think most people have the spare funds to justify any more subscription services. I'm good, thank you.
It was called Sega Channel and it literally came out 30 years ago.
Uhh what. I cant even begin to fathom what exactly they have that they think would require a subscription service? Some old cartoons? The only good Sonic games can be emulated on an electric toothbrush.
Guess greedy people see others doing something sketchy yet profitable and just start pipe dreaming ways to implement it themselves.
This dude says all these smart things about aggressively revitalizing their IP, then ends with "oh also mini consoles suck and we might do a subscription service."
@SalvorHardin I can see a real Sega fan, lol. This made me laugh.
If they included Toejam and Earl 3, and it was the only modern to play it I would subscribe for a month or two to play and complete it again, as I did enjoy that game. However, I cannot envision myself being permanently subscribed. We have all played the Mega Drive games multiple times over the past 30 years through various collections. As others have mentioned, there are too many subscription services for media nowadays. We cannot subscribe to them all.
I see it being moderately successful if they focused heavily on Saturn, Arcade games, Dreamcast, CD, 32x and various rarities, but they have yet to show much interest there. But then what? It would be Mega Drive, Game Gear, maybe some Master System and the things they produce for Apple Arcade or Amazon or whatever it is.
I love their retro stuff, don’t get me wrong. But perhaps they should focus more on the future, instead of milking out games from the past once again.
With the N64 and Gameboy advanced add on to the NSO I found that once I played through the things I wanted to play and realised some of it didn’t hold up, it became pretty redundant so I cancelled it. Same with Netflix. It doesn’t matter if it’s £20 or £2 a month, if you’ve had your fill you don’t remain subscribed.
@StewdaMegaManNerd Hey Scott, All here.
Nintendo can get away with this in theory because of their top tier IP/games (not that I am suggesting they should).
But for Sega to have the audacity to so much as think that much of their library is worth a damn that we should be paying for them in perpetuity? Get the hell out of here.
The only way to make this even better would be to somehow shoehorn in NFTs, crypto, and general WEB3 shenanigans. All hail the Segaverse!
/s * 9000
@Kingy Thanks to Scott, I have learned how to gain immortality, stay away from good deals, and play games that are usually played inside on the outside. Never have to see a wall again!
@BishopShiozawa Yeah you think that if Sega is going to try this subscription plan of theirs that they actually test the service first before delisting anything. It looks like Sega mentality here is delist everything first and then try the service not knowing if it'll fail or succeed. If the service fail, Sega would be the laughing stock again.
Wouldn't be the first time they tried this. They had Sega channel which came out years before netflix mail in DVD service. Sega channel basically downloaded Sega games directly to the Sega genesis. It was probably the first video game subscription service (at least in north America)
This isn't gonna be mod friendly, won't it?
 Show Comments
Leave A Comment
Hold on there, you need to login to post a comment...
Crush 40 Musician Is Suing Sega Over Sonic Adventure 2 Theme, 'Live And Learn'
Never too late, eh?
Sega Is "Evaluating" Its Own Netflix-Style Subscription Service
Shuji Utsumi thinks the model is "very interesting"
Sonic The Hedgehog Will Be Back For A Fourth Movie
Is anyone surprised?
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds Speeds Onto Nintendo Switch "Soon"
Update: New info has surfaced
Reminder: Sonic X Shadow Generations 'Sonic 3 Movie Pack' DLC Now Available
"Featuring the voice of Keanu Reeves"
 75
PSA Switch 2 Is Getting Revealed In The Next 100 Days
 18
Video Here Are Zion's Top 5 Nintendo Switch Games Of 2024
 37
Poll Box Art Brawl - Duel: Breath Of Fire II
 6
News Super Mario Run Celebrates Super Mario Party Jamboree In New Crossover Event
Popular Right Now
Show More 
Join 1,465,724 people following Nintendo Life:
© 2024 Hookshot Media, partner of IGN Entertainment | Hosted by 44 Bytes |  AdChoices | Do Not Sell My Personal Information