Stock is low and time is running out!

When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.

If you were hoping to stick a foldable phone under the tree this Christmas, you're in luck: the Google Pixel 9 Pro Fold just scored a $300 discount at Amazon, and if you order today (December 21st), your shipment will arrive before the 25th. 
This is the same historic price drop that we briefly saw around Black Friday and Cyber Monday, plus Amazon is also including one year of Gemini Advanced features at no additional cost. That means you're getting a bunch of cutting-edge AI software features and a whopping 2TB of storage via Google One for free!
Google Pixel 9 Pro Fold 256GB: $1,799 $1,499 at Amazon
Pick up the Pixel 9 Pro from Amazon today and you'll enjoy a whopping $300 discount AND Christmas delivery. The sleek foldable boasts two glorious OLED displays with a Tensor G4 chipset, seven years of OS updates, and a ton of useful Gemini AI software features. Obviously, $1,499 is still a good chunk of change, but if you've had your eye on the Pixel 9 Pro Fold for a while, now's your chance to get one by Christmas. 
👀 Alternative Christmas deal: Get $350 off the Pixel 9 Pro Fold, plus 50% off one year of Unlimited at Mint Mobile
As detailed in our glowing 4.5/5-star review, the Google Pixel 9 Pro Fold takes everything that's great about Pixel phones and packs it into a sleek, foldable phone package. You get the super-efficient Tensor G4 processor straight out of the box, plus two vibrant 120Hz displays, seven years of guaranteed OS/security updates, and all of the useful Gemini AI software features you could ever need. As a Pixel device, you can also expect some pretty amazing camera software and battery life. 
If Google would simply allow stylus support, the 9 Pro Fold could easily stand toe-to-toe against the Galaxy Z Fold 6 (also discounted for Christmas, by the way). 
Of course, if you just can't bear the thought of spending 1,500 bucks on a phone (understandable), it's worth mentioning that Amazon is also carving 19% off the base model Pixel 9. That flagship phone features a lot of the same hardware and software features of its foldable sibling, they're just in a smaller package. 
If you pick up this innovative foldable phone for the holidays, don't forget to protect your investment with one of the best Google Pixel 9 Pro Fold cases! You'll thank me later. 
Get the latest news from Android Central, your trusted companion in the world of Android
After almost a decade of working in the e-commerce space, Patrick Farmer (he/him) began his career at Android Central as a Deals and Commerce Writer before moving into a new role as AC's eCommerce Editor in 2023. When he's not hunting down the best deals and offering shopping advice for our readers, you'll often find him listening to music, camping out at a brewery, or treating his cat like a human child. 
How to declutter your tech — from someone who has too much of it
The OnePlus 13R's chip seemingly confirmed thanks to an early Amazon listing
Google unveils an AI model that lays out its thought process clearly
Android Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 