All the date-specific Xbox achievements unlockable over the festive period

The Swindle — December 24

Although it's that time of year to drink and be merry, there is no slacking on your achievement-popping duties. That's right; there are multiple, including several in one of the best Xbox Game Pass games Below, we've listed all the games with date-specific Xbox achievements that can be unlocked over the holidays to help you figure out what you'll need to prioritize and when. Provided you haven't popped any of these achievements before and have access to certain platforms, you'll have a total of 15 achievements you can unlock from December 24, 2024 to January 1, 2025.Technically, some of these achievements can be unlocked any time during the year if you're willing to change the date on your console or PC. However, Santa is watching, and he does have access to your achievement unlock time stamps.

Halo: The Master Chief Collection — December 25 and January 1

The first date-specific Xbox achievement you'll want to unlock is The Swindle's You're a mean one achievement , which can only be unlocked on December 24. To pop this one, you will need to loot a person's house of all its worthwhile possessions, which isn't very festive at all, but hey, Gamerscore is Gamerscore. This achievement works based on the GMT timezone, so you may be able to unlock it a bit earlier or later, depending on your location in the world.

Batman: Arkham City — December 25 and January 1

Next, we have Halo: The Master Chief Collection, which has three date-specific Xbox achievements for you to pop. The first is Elder Signs , which requires finding and viewing special sigils on Halo 3's Valhalla multiplayer map that only appear on specific days of the year. The December 25 sigil — a Christmas lightbulb with a cross marked through it — can be found on the map's far wall behind a turret. You can view this sigil in custom games, matchmaking, or in Forge mode. For more on how to unlock this one and a method on how to pop it offline, give the Elder Signs achievement guide a lookover.If you've already viewed one sigil this year, the achievement should unlock straight away. If you haven't, then the next sigil will be viewable on January 1.The second Halo: MCC date-specific achievement you can unlock is the Destination Vacation achievement . For this one, you'll need to fire up Halo 2's Zanzibar map in classic multiplayer on December 25 and view a special seasonal sign found on the beach. This sign will read: "Danger, This Soffish, DO NOT EAT!"If you don't quite get around to viewing this sign on December 25, you'll have another shot at unlocking the achievement on January 1 with a sign that reads: "Baby Shark Petting." For more details, check out the Destination Vacation guide It's not a holiday-themed date-specific achievement, but you can also unlock the Third Time's a Charm achievement on December 25. To pop this one, all you need to do is start Halo 3 on the 25th day of any month, so if you're playing Halo: MCC on Christmas Day, you might as well grab this achievement while you're there.On the off chance that you happen to own the Chinese version of Halo: The Master Chief Collection , all three of the above achievements are also unlockable on the same dates.

Chicken Madness — December 25

Next, it's time to load up Batman: Arkham City and visit one of the worst Batman villains of all time, Calendar Man. To unlock the Storyteller achievement (or at least make progress towards popping it), you'll need to meet with Calendar Man on 12 specific dates throughout the year. You'll find the villain in a cell down in the Solomon Wayne Courthouse, which you can access almost from the very start of the game. You can also visit Calendar Man on January 1 for another chance to unlock the achievement or make further progress. It's also worth noting that the achievement appears to go by the GMT time zone.If you're willing to faff around with your console's date and time, the Storyteller achievement can all be unlocked offline — check out this Storyteller achievement guide for further info on how to do that. There are also Xbox 360 and GFWL stacks available for Batman: Arkham City, so make sure you pay Calendar Man a visit in those versions, too. For the GFWL version, it looks like you will need to mess around with your system clock anyway to get this one to work.

It's Quiz Time — December 25

Put down the turkey; it's time for the far superior Christmas meat: chicken! In Chicken Madness, you can unlock the Jingle the Bells achievement on December 25 simply by loading into the party game on Christmas day.

Saw 2: Flesh & Blood — December 25

Another achievement you can unlock on December 25 is the Merry Quizmas achievement in the trivia party game, It's Quiz Time. Much like Chicken Madness above, all you need to do to pop this one is start the game on Christmas Day.

Dance Central 3 — December 25 and December 31

If you somehow have a copy of Saw 2: Flesh & Blood and an Xbox 360 ready to roll, you can unlock the festive Wasted Your Life achievement on Christmas Day. Wasted Your Life simply requires you to start the game and load up the main menu for it to pop.

Big Buck Hunter Pro Adventure — December 17 to December 31

Now, we're really getting to the dregs of date-specific Xbox achievements — for this one, you're going to need an Xbox 360, a Kinect, and a copy of Dance Central 3. For the Go Shorty achievement , you will need to bop along to and complete everyone's favorite Christmas song, 'In Da Club' by 50 Cent with the character Oblio. If you miss it on December 25, you can go for the achievement again by completing the same song with Dr. Tan on December 31.Finally, we come to a game not many will likely still have access to, but if you own Big Buck Hunter Pro Adventure on Windows, you can unlock the Flying Solo achievement by shooting 12 whitetail bucks between December 17 and December 31.Will you be going for any of these date-specific Xbox achievements over the holidays? Perhaps you have plans to chase down some relaxing easy Game Pass achievements instead? Let us know down in the comments.