'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean?
ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.
When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.  Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.
ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors  thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form.
In a year brimming with technological advancements, from Apple's first-ever mixed reality headset to the modern-day space race that is artificial intelligence, one particular niche of products saw its mainstream aspirations realized: smart rings.
According to IDC, global ring sales were estimated at 880,000 units in 2023. This year, the market research firm is forecasting a rise to 1.7 million units, with an even larger spike of 3.2 million units in 2025. As consumers continue to find ways to dial into their health and well-being, the burdenless form factors of smart rings are slowly but surely chipping away market share from fitness trackers, bands, and smartwatches. The uptick in new smart rings at CES 2024 was our first indication.
Also: We've entered the era of the smart ring. Here's why it will shake up the wearables market
While the smart ring category was validated by the arrival of its first major tech vendor with Samsung's Galaxy Ring -- as well as by exciting new entrants such as Ultrahuman, and the Movano Evie -- the Oura Ring 4 stands out as a beacon of seamless integration between advanced health tracking technology and everyday wellness. It's this rare synergy of hardware and software, chased with actionable insights that lead to meaningful life changes, that earn the Oura Ring 4 the top spot on ZDNET's best smart rings list -- and recognition as ZDNET's Product of the Year for 2024.
The Oura Ring 4 offers impressive upgrades across the board, making it more comfortable, useful, and competitive than ever.
How did the Oura Ring 4 win out among all the products released this year? By playing to its strengths and, perhaps more importantly, timing. The release timeline of the Oura Ring 4 -- in early October -- turned out to be its greatest asset. 
Review: Oura Ring 4: The best smart ring I've tested this year
While competitors like Samsung and Ultrahuman rushed to market, Oura kept itself relevant with frequent software updates, defending jabs with improvements to stress monitoring, women's health features, heart rate variability, and more. The counterpunch came when the Ring 4 launched this fall with a new design that outperformed competing wearables -- while listing for the same retail price as the previous Ring 3.
At a starting price of $349, the Oura Ring 4 introduced several hardware improvements:
These changes were backed by a companion app that ZDNET's experts agree to be one of the more intuitive, user-centric, and helpful software experiences available. For example, sleep scores come paired with personalized recommendations, stress data is contextualized with mindfulness prompts, and activity tracking is tailored to individual readiness levels, accounting for every user's unique needs and health state.
"Its ability to monitor vitals and use the data it collects to predict illness, contextualize wellness, and provide data used for a diagnosis puts the smart ring ahead of its many competitors," adds Nina Raemont, ZDNET's smart ring reviewer.
Previous winner: ZDNET's product of the year: Meta Quest 3 is the quiet shocker of 2023
Still, there's one lingering question mark about the Oura Ring 4 and the company in general: subscription fees. While competitors have adopted subscription-less business models to upsell their smart rings, Oura continues to justify its $6 monthly charge with sustained innovation, cross-device compatibility, and enhanced value. For example, a Ring 3 owner might not have access to the enhanced sensors of the Ring 4, but they still benefit from updated sleep algorithms, stress-tracking features, and mindfulness tools introduced through the app. 
The Samsung Galaxy Ring sells for $399, with no additional subscription fee.
The app's ability to make sense of complex health metrics, paired with its continuous updates, turns the Oura Ring from a simple gadget into a life-enhancing tool. For many users, that transformation justifies the monthly fee. For others, it's a primary reason to invest in a competing smart ring.
Health tech has taken center stage in recent years, fueled by a growing awareness of how vital it is to monitor our physical and mental well-being. The demand for accessible, reliable, and insightful health tools has never been higher, and the Oura Ring 4 gets ZDNET's highest recommendation.
Frequent software updates - including the ability to process visual information live - and a timeless design have kept the now one-year-old Meta Ray-Ban smart glasses more relevant than ever.
While it doesn't have the same visual fidelity as the LG G4 OLED, Samsung's S95D introduced a new anti-reflective display that greatly reduces glare without sacrificing much color and brightness.
With improved audio and conversation boost features, Apple has bridged the gap between everyday tech and medical devices, making enhanced hearing more accessible and socially accepted.
Google's latest AI image generator tops ZDNET's list with high-resolution, hyper-realistic outputs. It even renders hands and fingers properly.