According to Forrester, over 25% of global data and analytics employees report annual losses exceeding $5 million due to poor data quality, with 7% estimating losses of $25 million or more. This number is staggering and considering machine learning optimization (MLOps) can significantly reduce these losses by ensuring data quality, it’s no wonder it’s becoming a necessity across industries. 

MLOps, when implemented effectively, is a powerful tool that continues to transform every industry with it’s ability to leverage data and automate decision-making. Building a successful machine learning model is a critical step that requires thoughtful planning and execution to ensure your data is utilized effectively.

While there are thousands of model types to explore (a topic for another blog), let’s start with the fundamentals, with focus on six essential steps to develop a machine learning model to gain a better understanding of how the process works.

What is MLOps
First thing’s first, why are MLOps and AI all anyone is talking about, and is it actually necessary for me to understand?

MLOps is summarized as a set of practices that create an assembly line for building and running machine learning models. At its core, it involves automating tasks to foster productive collaboration among data scientists, engineers, and even non-technical stakeholders, ultimately enhancing models and their outputs.

Seldon’s focus on the deployment of models, with our real-time machine learning framework with enhanced observability. However, the development of your models before deployment is arguably one of the most significant parts of the MLOps process, as when it’s done right, can help save time and resources in the long run. 

Using a tool like Seldon enables faster model deployment through advanced experimentation features and flexible, agnostic approach that seamlessly integrates with your existing legacy stack and adapts to future requirements. Choosing a tool with modular development enables teams to focus on functionality that helps reduce financial costs typically associated with big-box providers and minimizes time costs through modular, reusable development.