Samsung's due to unveil the Galaxy S25 series next month. A recent leak has revealed that the company's Unpacked event for the new devices might take place on January 22. What remains unknown at this point in time is what city the event will be held in, as Samsung has been rotating between different cities for its flagship Unpacked events.

A new report highlights that the Galaxy S25 series may not be the only hardware announcement that Samsung makes at the event. It's also said to unveil the Galaxy Ring 2 as well as its much rumored smart glasses.

New Galaxy Ring and smart glasses may accompany the Galaxy S25 series

The report comes from Taiwanese media which claims certain details about the Galaxy S25 series that are already known, such as the use of Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Elite chipset. It also claims that the new flagship lineup will have an AI feature that offers personalized clothing recommendations and transport information to users.

Given that Galaxy AI was a big part of Samsung's Galaxy S24 series launch this year and how the company continues to improve the AI functionality it offers on its smartphones, it's hard to deny the possibility that Samsung may pair its latest flagship series with a handful of new artificial intelligence-powered features.

It's also said that the Galaxy Ring 2 might be unveiled at next month's Unpacked event. Samsung showed off the first Galaxy Ring at the Galaxy S24's Unpacked event while the device itself was released in July. So it's entirely possible that the successor could be shown off during the event.

There has been some recent chatter about the Galaxy Ring making an appearance at the event, with the only major change being in the size, as Samsung is set to offer the Galaxy Ring in size 14 and 15. This report claims that in addition to the new sizes, the updated Ring also gets more accurate health data sensors, better AI features, and better battery life.

Lastly, Samsung's rumored smart glasses that it has made in collaboration with Qualcomm and Google could be unveiled at the event. These are different from Samsung's Project Moohan XR headset that the company officially confirmed recently. Qualcomm's chip will power the device and Google's Android XR platform will provide the necessary software and AI features. No word as yet on when this device would actually become available for sale.

As things stand, it appears we're in for an exciting Unpacked event, one that may set the groundwork for the mobile division to deliver incredible results for the conglomerate throughout the coming year.