Almost no one ever writes about the Parker Solar Probe anymore.
Sure, the spacecraft got some attention when it launched.  It is, after all, the fastest-moving object that humans have ever built. At its maximum speed, goosed by the gravitational pull of the sun, the probe reaches a velocity of 430,000 miles per hour, or more than one-sixth of 1 percent the speed of light. That kind of speed would get you from New York City to Tokyo in less than a minute.
This story originally appeared on Ars Technica, a trusted source for technology news, tech policy analysis, reviews, and more. Ars is owned by WIRED's parent company, Condé Nast.
And the Parker Solar Probe also has the distinction of being the first NASA spacecraft named after a living person. At the time of its launch, in August 2018, physicist Eugene Parker was 91 years old.
But in the six years since the probe has been zipping through outer space and flying by the sun? Not so much. Let's face it, the astrophysical properties of the sun and its complicated structure are not something that most people think about on a daily basis.
However, the smallish probe—it masses less than a metric ton, and its scientific payload is only about 110 pounds (50 kg)—is about to make its star turn. Quite literally. On Christmas Eve, the Parker Solar Probe will make its closest approach yet to the sun. It will come within just 3.8 million miles (6.1 million km) of the solar surface, flying into the solar atmosphere for the first time.
Yeah, it's going to get pretty hot. Scientists estimate that the probe’s heat shield will endure temperatures in excess of 2,500 degrees Fahrenheit (1,371 C) on Christmas Eve, which is pretty much the polar opposite of the North Pole.
I spoke with the chief of science at NASA, Nicky Fox, to understand why the probe is being tortured so. Before moving to NASA headquarters, Fox was the project scientist for the Parker Solar Probe, and she explained that scientists really want to understand the origins of the solar wind.
This is the stream of charged particles that emanate from the sun’s outermost layer, the corona. Scientists have been wondering about this particular mystery for longer than half a century, Fox explained.
“Quite simply, we want to find the birthplace of the solar wind,” she said.
Way back in the 1950s, before we had satellites or spacecraft to measure the sun’s properties, Parker predicted the existence of this solar wind. The scientific community was pretty skeptical about this idea—many ridiculed Parker, in fact—until the Mariner 2 mission started measuring the solar wind in 1962.
As the scientific community began to embrace Parker’s theory, they wanted to know more about the solar wind, which is such a fundamental constituent of the entire solar system. Although the solar wind is invisible to the naked eye, when you see an aurora on Earth, that's the solar wind interacting with Earth’s magnetosphere in a particularly violent way.
Only it is expensive to build a spacecraft that can get to the sun. And really difficult too.
Now, you might naively think that it's the easiest thing in the world to send a spacecraft to the sun. After all, it's this big and massive object in the sky, and it's got a huge gravitational field. Things should want to go there because of this attraction; you ought to be able to toss any old thing into the sky, and it will go toward the sun. The problem is that you don't actually want your spacecraft to fly into the sun or be going so fast that it passes the sun and keeps moving. So you've got to have a pretty powerful rocket to get your spacecraft in just the right orbit.
And then you've got to have a pretty sophisticated spacecraft that can survive flying into the atmosphere of a star. Because it's super hot, and there's this hellish radiation all around, not to mention plasma.
But you can't get around the fact that to observe the origin of the solar wind, you've got to get inside the corona. Fox explained that it's like trying to understand a forest by looking in from the outside. One actually needs to go into the forest and find a clearing. However, we can't really stay inside the forest very long—because it's on fire.
So, the Parker Solar Probe had to be robust enough to get near the sun and then back into the coldness of space. Therein lies another challenge. The spacecraft is going from this incredibly hot environment into a cold one and then back again multiple times.
“If you think about just heating and cooling any kind of material, they either go brittle and crumble, or they may go like elastic with a continual change of property,” Fox said. “Obviously, with a spacecraft like this, you can't have it making a major property change. You also need something that's lightweight, and you need something that's durable.”
The science instruments had to be hardened as well. As the probe flies into the sun, there's an instrument known as a Faraday cup that hangs out to measure ion and electron fluxes from the solar wind. Unique technologies were needed. The cup itself is made from sheets of titanium-zirconium-molybdenum, with a melting point of about 4,260 degrees Fahrenheit (2,349 C). Another challenge came from the electronic wiring, as normal cables would melt. So, the team at Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory and NASA grew sapphire crystal tubes to suspend the wiring and made the wires from niobium.
Anyway, all that is to say, it took a lot of time, money, and technological breakthroughs in exotic materials to get a spacecraft that was up to the task. And on Christmas Eve, we're finally going to see what the Parker Solar Probe has got.
This story originally appeared on Ars Technica.
In your inbox: Get Plaintext—Steven Levy's long view on tech
Year in Review: Look back at the best—and worst—of 2024
Uncanny Valley: An insider look at the influence of Silicon Valley
More From WIRED
Reviews and Guides
© 2024 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices