Stock futures are edging lower in pre-market trading; Netflix (NFLX) said its Christmas Day NFL broadcast set viewership records; Apple (AAPL) shares are edging higher as the iPhone maker's market capitalization nears $4 trillion; UnitedHealth Group (UNH) and Amedisys (AMED) agreed to extend the deadline on their $3.3 billion merger proposal until next year; and KULR Technology Group's (KULR) shares are looking to extend gains after its first bitcoin purchase worth $21 million. Here's what investors need to know today.

1. Stock Futures Edge Lower as Treasury Yields Rise

Stock futures are lower in pre-market trading Friday after a mixed performance from the major indexes on Thursday as the rally earlier in the holiday-shortened trading week lost steam. Dow futures are lower by about 0.3% after the blue chip index moved higher in the prior session, the only major index to show gains. Nasdaq and S&P 500 futures are also down around 0.3%. Treasury yields are on the rise, with the 10-year Treasury note yield above 4.6%. Bitcoin (BTCUSD) is gaining near $96,600, while gold futures are moving higher to trade at over $2,600 an ounce. Oil futures are also slightly higher.

2. Apple's Market Cap Nears $4T Milestone

Apple (AAPL) shares are edging higher after the tech giant's stock closed at an all-time high Thursday amid expectations of an artificial intelligence (AI)-driven upgrade cycle. Wedbush analysts raised their price target for Apple's stock by $25 to $325, implying about 25% upside from Thursday's record close at $259.02. The boost comes as the tech giant's stock has gained over 34% on the year, bringing its market capitalization closer to hitting $4 trillion.



3. Netflix Says Its NFL Games Set Streaming Record

Netflix (NFLX) said it set a streaming record with its Christmas Day broadcasts of National Football League (NFL) games. Each of the two games televised surpassed the record for NFL streaming viewership set during an NBCUniversal Peacock broadcast of a playoff game last season. Viewership peaked at 27 million, according to Nielsen, as people tuned into singer Beyoncé’s performance at halftime of the matchup between the Baltimore Ravens and Houston Texans.



4. KULR Technology Shares Look to Extend Gains on Bitcoin Purchases

KULR Technology Group (KULR) shares are up over 12% in pre-market trading, after closing at a record high Thursday in the wake of the energy storage company's first investment in bitcoin worth $21 million. The company said the purchase was part of its "Bitcoin Treasury" strategy announced earlier this month, with plans to use as much as 90% of its surplus cash to purchase the digital currency.

5. UnitedHealth Group and Amedisys Extend Deadline on $3.3B Merger

UnitedHealth Group (UNH) and Amedisys (AMED) agreed to extend the deadline on their $3.3 billion merger proposal until next year, coming after government antitrust regulators last month moved to block the deal in court on worries it would undermine competition in the home health services market. The two companies had expected to close the deal today, but the new deadline for the merger is set for 10 days after a final court decision or Dec. 31, 2025, whichever comes first. Amedisys shares are more than 3% higher in pre-market trading on the news, while shares of UnitedHealth Group are little changed.