Health & Fitness Eye Drops Recalled In IL Over Fungal Contamination Foreign material found in the drops for dry eyes was determined "to be fungal in nature," according to the FDA.

A major eye drop brand has issued a product recall in Illinois and across the United States for possible fungal contamination. (Shutterstock)

ILLINOIS — A major eye drop brand has issued a product recall in Illinois and across the United States for possible fungal contamination, which officials said could cause an eye infection and threaten users' vision.

Alcon Laboratories is voluntarily recalling one lot of their Systane Lubricant Eye Drops Ultra PF, Single Vials On-the-Go, which are in a 25-count package and are used to relieve dry eyes. The Texas-based company got a customer complaint of foreign material inside one of the sealed vials, which was determined "to be fungal in nature," according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. If the contaminated drops are used, the fungus could cause an eye infection that may threaten the users' vision and is potentially life-threatening for immunocompromised patients.

No customers have reported an infection thus far, according to the FDA recall announcement. These recalled eye drops were shipped to retailers nationwide and also are available online, the FDA said.

U.S. Food and Drug Administration The affected Systane Lubricant Eye Drops Ultra PF, Single Vials On-the-Go is limited to lot number 10101, with an expiration date of September 2025. They come in a green and pink carton and are sold in quantities of 25. The lot number and expiration date are printed on the back of the box and each vial. Any customers who have these eye drops in their homes are advised to stop using them immediately and return them to the place of purchase for a replacement or refund.

Alcon Laboratories is also notifying all its distributors and customers about the recall and asks any retailers or distributors who still have these eye drops in stock to recall them. Consumers with questions regarding this recall can contact Alcon Laboratories at 1-800-241-5999 between 8:30 a.m. and 7 p.m. ET, Monday to Friday. Anyone who experiences any problems that could be related to this product should contact their physician or healthcare provider, the FDA said.