The Green Bay Packers will attempt to score the team’s biggest win of the 2024 season when they travel to Minneapolis to take on the 13-2 Minnesota Vikings at U.S. Bank Stadium on Sunday afternoon.

Both the Packers and Vikings have clinched a playoff spot and are fighting for postseason positioning in what will be a historic matchup. Sunday’s showdown will mark the first time in the rivalry’s history that both teams have at least 11 wins, and the Packers and Vikings have 24 combined wins, another record for the rivalry.

Can the Packers avenge a 31-29 defeat at Lambeau Field to the Vikings — who led 28-0 in the first half of the first meeting — and snap Minnesota’s current eight-game win streak?

Here are five keys to the Packers beating the Vikings in Week 17:

Stopping Sam

Vikings quarterback Sam Darnold ranks 23rd among qualifying quarterbacks in both pressure-to-sack ratio and turnover worthy play percentage, per Pro Football Focus. While highly efficient from clean pockets, Darnold lacks escape ability under pressure and will provide turnover opportunities. He’s not a statue, but he wants to hang in the pocket for as long as necessary to deliver the ball downfield. The Packers must convert pressures into sacks — creating potential drive-enders — and take advantage of the 1-2 big-play turnover opportunities likely to happen on Sunday afternoon. Beating the Vikings might require 3-4 well-timed sacks and 1-2 takeaways against Darnold. The defensive front must lead the way.

Keep the game script

In the first meeting, the Packers fell behind by multiple scores early and essentially had to abandon the run game. Josh Jacobs averaged 5.7 yards per rushing attempt but received only nine total carries, a season low. That kind of game script can’t happen on Sunday. The Packers are run-based and need to maintain balance to survive against Brian Flores’ exotic scheme. Back in September, the Packers moved the ball early but failed to convert in several scenarios, missing two field goals and turning the ball over twice. By the time the Packers found their footing, it was 28-0. A much faster start is required in Minneapolis.

Protecting the football

The Vikings lead the NFL in takeaways with 30, including 22 interceptions. Jordan Love threw three of those picks and the Packers had four total giveaways back in Week 4. Protecting the ball is vital every week but it’s going to be especially important against a ball-hawking Vikings defense. Minnesota has a takeaway in every game this season, but both of the team’s losses came when the defense produced only one takeaway. Love hasn’t thrown an interception since Nov. 17, but he’ll be challenged to keep the ball out of harm’s way on Sunday. It’s possible that being healthy — he was still hobbled by a knee injury back in September — will help him avoid turnovers when pressured this time around.

Keeping lid on vs. Jefferson, Addison

Sam Darnold leads the NFL in completions on passes thrown 20 or more yards in the air, and 24 of his 29 completions have gone to Justin Jefferson and Jordan Addison. Can the Packers defense, which has done a terrific job of preventing deep completions this season, keep the lid on the coverage of Jefferson and Addison on Sunday? The Packers have question marks at safety with Evan Williams and Javon Bullard both dealing with injuries, so it’s possible Zayne Anderson will have to play another big role next to Xavier McKinney on Sunday. Jeff Hafley’s coverage group can’t allow Jefferson and Addison to create explosive plays down the field.

Win with 4 rushers

This game might come down to the performance of the Packers defensive front. Jeff Hafley’s defense must be able to pressure Sam Darnold without having to bring extra blitzers, putting the front four in the spotlight. Rashan Gary, Lukas Van Ness, Devonte Wyatt, Kenny Clark and Brenton Cox Jr. have all been more disruptive since the bye. The Packers need a few game-wrecking performances on Sunday. In wins against the Vikings at U.S. Bank Stadium over the years, the Packers have received big-time disruptive efforts from the likes of Za’Darius Smith, Kenny Clark and Preston Smith. Who is going to step up and provide the game-changing performance on Sunday?