The Patriots played an excellent first half against the Bills last Sunday, and even though New England fell 24-21 to Buffalo, it was enough for Los Angeles Chargers head coach Jim Harbaugh to take notice.

“They’re playing extremely well,” Harbaugh told reporters during his press conference on Monday. “Saw what they did this past week weekend (against the Bills). Outstanding defense and Drake Maye is progressing into being a really fine quarterback.”

Unlike the 3-12 Patriots, the Charges (9-6) have the possibility of clinching a playoff berth in Harbaugh’s first season at the helm with a win at New England on Saturday.

If the Patriots want to play the role of spoiler, it starts with Maye. The rookie quarterback has thrown a touchdown pass in seven consecutive games but has also thrown at least one interception in each of those contests.

“I think some unfortunate things have happened with the turnovers, and I think some of them definitely fall on me,” Maye told reporters at Gillette Stadium on Tuesday, per team-provided transcript. “I think there’s definitely a way we need to cut down turnovers. That starts with me protecting the football and throwing it incomplete or throwing it in the dirt or little things like that. I’m still going to be aggressive. That’s the way I play, and I think it’s, in the long run, going to be good for us.”

Story continues below advertisement

Maye admitted that he would ask Patriots tight end Hunter Henry about Chargers quarterback Justin Herbert’s game.

“I used to ask Hunter about him, and they played together. … He means a lot to that offense. You can see what he does making plays with his feet, but I think the biggest thing is he’s just consistent,” Maye said. “He doesn’t turn the ball over, and he just does a good job of moving the football and finding ways to win.”

“He was killing it his rookie year, but just the growth that he’s continued to have,” Henry added, per team-provided transcript. “He has all the tools, strong arm and makes every throw. He’s mobile, he can extend plays, he can run. He just presents a lot of challenges for defense. He’s a special, special player. It’s always fun. He’s a high level competitor that loves to compete and loves to win and you got to love him going against a guy like that.”