This article was first published in the Cougar Insiders newsletter. Sign up to receive the newsletter in your inbox each week.

How big is BYU’s game with Colorado in the Alamo Bowl in San Antonio?

It looms as a popular choice for TV viewers and the intraconference matchup is both unique and intriguing. It features a Heisman Trophy winner in WR-DB Travis Hunter, a talented two-way player, and his quarterback Shedeur Sanders, who finished No. 8 in Heisman Trophy ballot points.

Special Collector's Issue: "1984: The Year BYU was Second to None" Get an inclusive look inside BYU Football's 1984 National Championship season. Buy Now

The past two seasons, the team coached by Deion Sanders has drawn some of the highest TV ratings in college sports. This bowl game is also expected to draw a big TV audience.

The Cougars bring the Big 12’s No. 2-ranked team in bowl appearances behind Texas Tech, a formidable brand program with a national title trophy that surprised many this season with 10 wins. How big is this game for BYU? Well, a win would put the Cougars at 11 wins in 2024 and only four other Cougar teams have surpassed that win total, according to statistician Ralph Sokolowski. Those teams were the 1996 team at 14-1, the 1984 team at 13-0, the 1980 Cougars at 12-1, and the Gary Crowton team that went 12-2 in 2001.

Cougar Insider predictions

Question of the week: What are your keys to BYU vs. Colorado in the Alamo Bowl Dec. 28 in San Antonio? Give a prediction.

Jay Drew: The more I study the BYU-Colorado matchup in the Alamo Bowl, the more that it appears to be a classic matchup pitting BYU’s strong defense against Colorado’s outstanding slew of offensive weapons. BYU defensive coordinator Jay Hill said Monday that CU QB Shedeur Sanders, Heisman Trophy winner Travis Hunter and company will represent the best passing attack the Cougars will have faced in his two seasons in Provo. He’s spot on.

The Cougars will be without starting safety Crew Wakley, who is in the transfer portal. That’s not a good thing for a defense trying to contain perhaps the country’s best quarterback. Shedeur was overshadowed a bit by Hunter this season, but he’s the real deal. He’s been sacked 39 times this year, however, which should give the Cougars some hope that they can get to him. If they can’t, it will be a long night in the Alamodome.

Another key will be BYU’s ability to run the football, and make life a bit easier for Jake Retzlaff. BYU needs to control the clock and keep CU’s explosive offense on the sidelines. The Cougars can’t afford to get in a shootout with the Buffs. It won’t go well for them if they do.

Can Retzlaff outplay Sanders? He doesn’t have to, but he needs to stay in the same ballpark. He’s got to be competent, take care of the football, and occasionally hurt CU with his legs — something he didn’t do as often in November.

Prediction: Colorado 45, BYU 31

Dick Harmon: Bowl games are unique games. Teams that are motivated play well. Those who are not, just count it as a trip and go through the motions. This game might prove to show two teams that might just put on a fight.

BYU doesn’t have the firepower to go toe-to-toe with Colorado’s offense if it is a shootout. They’ll need to burn some clock and keep Colorado’s explosive offensive players on the sidelines. BYU did this effectively in the win over UCF and are capable, if Jake Retzlaff, LJ Martin and Hinckley Ropati can get into a rhythm.

Another key is for the Cougars to get off to a quick start. We saw firsthand how BYU struggled to start against Oklahoma State, Utah, Kansas and Arizona State late in the season. It’s a trend that Kalani Sitake, Aaron Roderick and Jay Hill have to fix before kickoff. Chasing Colorado from behind will be a disaster.

Another key is BYU’s seniors on the field. They didn’t go bowling last year and this is their swan song, a chance to have some fun, play hard, be tough and deliver. Their leadership leading up to kickoff will be imperative in the outcome.

Colorado has a tremendous sack total this season, almost double what BYU’s defense posted. This means Retzlaff will need to be sharp, quick and accurate when he throws. If he starts getting taken down by the Buffs defense, it will really impact the offensive flow. He’ll need to be picky, but he’ll need to gain some first downs and TDs with his legs on time.

Finally, it will be interesting to see how Sitake and his staff react to his contract extension. Coaches get on edge waiting for these kinds of votes of confidence from administrations, their futures are at stake. A head coach wants stability and Sitake wanted to be able to reward his staff with more money and resources. He was given that. Now, does he come out of the corner swinging, or does he say “Whew, glad that’s taken care of,” and lose a little edge as the year closes?

I sense BYU’s staff and players are energized and hungry for this game after leaving ASU with a loss.

If this is a close game, BYU will win. If Colorado races to a big lead, it will be tough for the Cougars to chase.

Prediction: BYU 35, Colorado 31.

Dave McCann: BYU football is at the tail end of its 100th season and all 40 bowl games have come in my lifetime. I don’t remember much about the 1974 Fiesta Bowl. I was 7 years old at the time. However, I have heard my friend and former Cougar quarterback Gary Sheide complain about the 16-6 loss to Oklahoma State, including the cheap shot that knocked him out of the game, so much that I feel like I was there.

The other 39 bowls have either been watched live in person or on television. There have been some fun matchups over the years, including BYU-SMU, BYU-Ohio State, BYU-Penn State, BYU-Kansas State, BYU-Oklahoma and BYU-Oregon, but this month’s BYU-Colorado game hits a little different.

For one, the Cougars are facing the Heisman Trophy winner (Travis Hunter) who is coached by the most interesting and extravagant character in college football — Dieon Sanders, or “Coach Prime” — a spinoff from his well-earned NFL nickname “Prime Time.” Sanders was a draw on the field, and he remains a must-watch personality on the sideline. In addition, his son, Shedeur Sanders is the Buffaloes quarterback and projected to be a top pick in the NFL draft.

Second, and unprecedented, this is BYU’s first bowl game as a member of the Power Four Country Club. As a result, the 10-2 Cougars are getting a like-minded P4 opponent (Colorado) in a post-Christmas showdown on a viewer-friendly day (Saturday), in a prime-time slot (5:30 p.m.) on network television (ABC) that includes a program record $8.25 million payout.

Third, this game will be a battle of wits matching pizzaz against grit — Colorado’s offense against BYU’s defense. Both have proven their metal over the course of the season. That leaves the Cougars’ offense and the Buffaloes’ defense, along with special teams, to make the difference.

I like BYU’s chances if Jake Retzlaff plays elusively on his feet, running and throwing and making good decisions. I agree with former BYU quarterback Brandon Doman, who said the Cougars’ offense can beat Colorado’s defense by following the blueprint that Kansas provided when they routed the Buffaloes 37-21 on Nov. 23 — run the ball, control the clock, limit Colorado’s possessions, and score touchdowns in the red zone.

When it comes to special teams, BYU is special. Not only do they have All-American returner Keelan Marion, but place kicker Will Ferrin has earned his place among the elite performers in college football.

Staging a perfect game isn’t realistic, but playing perfect in key moments is. If this game is close, then Will Ferrin, who has made 14 straight field goals, will win it with his foot, 38-35. If it gets out of hand, the Buffaloes will roam free, 45-24.

Prediction: I’m banking on another fantastic finish by Ferrin.

BYU football head coach Kalani Sitake reacts after a play during a game between the University of Utah Utes and the BYU Cougars held at Rice-Eccles Stadium in Salt Lake City on Saturday, Nov. 9, 2024. | Isaac Hale, Deseret News

Cougar tales

BYU offensive coordinator Aaron Roderick says he’s in awe of Colorado’s Heisman winner, who he will face on the field in the bowl game. Here is Jay Drew’s report of Roderick and Keelan Marion’s observations on Hunter, who he knew in Georgia while in high school.

In this piece by KSL.com, BYU players who can benefit the most from practicing for the bowl game are highlighted.

BYU’s defense received a commitment from a rush end with a familiar name of Takitaki. Read Ryan McDonald’s report here.

If WR Chase Roberts returns to BYU and forgoes the NFL, it will likely be decided after the bowl game, according to this story by KSL.com.

From the archives

From X-verse

Dwayne Wade shows up at BYU to practice (@RyanQualtrics)

This coach is owed a raise (@975Hans)

Buff vs Coug receiver stats (@gregwrubell)

Extra points

CFP committee clearly devalued schedules (Tulsa World)

History of Heisman winners in Alamo Bowl (KSAT.com)

Coach Prime discusses BYU prep (KSL Sports)

Fanalysts

Comments from Deseret News readers:

NOW THIS IS A RIVAL BYU STYLE!!!!! This is what I’m talking about. Respect from fans, players and and coaches. I like Prime, I want to beat him. But if BYU loses, it won’t be to some folks that hate you but instead respect you and who you are. I like that kind of competition win or lose.

— Dimitri

This is going to be one heck of a good game. Alamo Bowl records will be shattered. Go Buffaloes.!! And once again, I’d like to remind all the Utah fans who told me Deion was a fraud have fun Watching Utah in their bowl game! Cougars Buffs let’s do this!!

— Oddslane

Up Next