The Detroit Pistons scored 31 points in the final seven minutes, including a clutch four-point game-winning play from Jaden Ivey with 3.1 seconds remaining to snatch a victory from the Sacramento Kings 114-113.

The Pistons’ comeback was fueled by a trio of fourth-quarter threes from Malik Beasley that gave them a puncher’s chance if they could dig down and get a stop or two. They got those crucial stops and cut the lead to one on a Beasley stepback three and the score at 109-108 with 1:04 remaining.

Detroit played some smart, engaged defense and forced a Trey Lyles’ off-the-mark three. Cade Cunningham took the ball and attempted an iso in the paint, but couldn’t nail his 11-foot jumper.

That put the ball in De’Aaron Fox’s hands. Fox, who exploded in the fourth quarter and looked to be the savior of the game until Ivey ripped the Kings’ hearts out, then calmly hit a filthy 14-foot high-arcing jumper to pad the lead back to three 111-108 with 19 seconds remaining.

Instead of holding for a three, the Pistons decided to go quick and use the open lane to create an easy driving two for Ivey, who connected easily. The Kings got a pair of free-throws from Kevin Heuerter and just over 10 seconds left for the Pistons to attempt to tie with a three.

Detroit attempted to put the ball in Beasley’s hands for the game-winning shot, but the Kings obviously had an anyone-but-Beasley defensive gameplan. Beasley passed over to Ivey in the corner who attempted to sidestep the collapsing defender and get the shot up.

Ivey double-clutched, let it go, absorbed the contact, and sank the shot. He then went to the charity stripe and hit the game-winning free-throw to give the Pistons their third win in a row. Ivey finished with 19 points, and Beasley finished with 22 off the bench.

It’s the team’s first three-game winning streak since 2021.

The Pistons were led by Cade Cunningham’s 33 points and 10 assists. Cunningham did most of his damage in the first half as Detroit was lethargic on both ends, and Cade put the team on his back.

Fox, who had five points at the start of the second quarter, finished with 26 to lead the Kings.

Sacramento was without star center Domantas Sabonis, who was out with an illness, but who needs Sabonis when you have Trey Lyles?

Lyles, a bonafide Pistons killer, chipped in 20 points, four three-pointers, and eight rebounds.