A former Central Michigan quarterback died in a hunting accident at an Air Force base in Florida.

Tommy Lazzaro, affectionately known as “Touchdown Tommy,” died after the tragic incident on Sunday in Florida, Central Michigan University announced.

He was 27 years old.

3 Central Michigan Chippewas quarterback Tommy Lazzaro (7) throws a pass during a non-conference college football game against Michigan State on Sept. 29, 2018. Icon Sportswire via Getty Images

He was a member of the Central Michigan football team from 2016-19 and helped lead the team to a MAC title game appearance in 2019.

After graduating, he enlisted in the United States Army.

Lazzaro’s tragic death occurred at the Eglin range at the Eglin Air Force Base located in Freeport, Florida, when he was struck by a stray bullet that had been fired by a hunter, military news site Task & Purpose reported.

Lazzaro, a member of the 2nd Battalion, 7th Special Forces Group, had been on his way to the range to assist a fellow soldier who had been having car trouble, a spokesperson for the 7th Special Forces Group told the outlet.

Multiple agencies responded to the incident, including the Walton County Sheriff’s Office and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission.

What happened has been described as a “tragic hunting accident,” WMBB reported.

3 Tommy Lazzaro (7) celebrates with tight end Bernhard Raimann (86) of the Central Michigan Chippewas after scoring a touchdown against the Miami Redhawks during the first half of the MAC Championship at Ford Field on Dec. 7, 2019. Getty Images

Lazzaro appeared in 20 games over the course of his career at Central Michigan, and he made five starts for the Chippewas, completing 72 passes for 758 yards and five touchdowns.

He rushed for 542 yards and 11 touchdowns on 133 attempts.

“When we took over the program, Tommy was truly our leader in so many ways,” head coach Jim McElwain, who took over the program in 2019, said in a statement. “CMU Football was blessed to have him and will always remember him for all he did for many of us. He will be missed by all of the Chippewas.”

Before his arrival in Central Michigan, Lazzaro played a year at Dodge City Community College where he put up 2,237 yards and 14 touchdowns while the team went 9-3.

3 Tommy Lazzaro of the Central Michigan Chippewas rushes for a touchdown against Miami Ohio

during the MAC Championship in 2019. Getty Images

He followed in his father and grandfather’s footsteps by enlisting in the military, reaching the rank of sergeant at the time of his death.

“We deeply mourn the loss of U.S. Army Sgt. Thomas Lazzaro of the 2nd Battalion, 7th Special Forces Group (Airborne),” Col. Patrick Nelson, 7th SFG(A) commander, told Task & Purpose. “We will never forget his dedication, courage, and commitment to safeguarding our freedoms. His absence leaves a void that will be felt professionally and personally among those who had the honor of working with Thomas. Our heartfelt condolences extend to his family, friends, and comrades during this difficult time.”

A service for Lazzaro is being held in Fort Walton Beach, Florida, on Saturday.