Happy Thursday! As the year draws to a close, we’re sharing some health hacks we learned from experts in 2024, stories of cancer “thrivers” who are giving other patients hope, and advice on how to make the most of 15-minute medical appointments. Plus, we’ve got our weekly “joy” snack. But before that …

This week’s must-reads:

Cancer ‘thrivers’ give other patients hope

Video journalist Drea Cornejo was diagnosed with Stage 4 lung cancer at age 26. She writes about the fear she experienced at being told that she probably would live for just three more months, and how a community of cancer “thrivers,” alive years after their diagnosis of metastatic cancer, gave her hope.

Drea writes:

These survivors, or “cancer thrivers” as some of us prefer to say, helped show me that recent advancements in medicine have drastically changed what it means to live with late-stage cancer.

Advertisement

“We’re in an age where immunotherapy, for instance, has totally revolutionized the outlook for people who have metastatic cancers that respond to this therapy,” said Lidia Schapira, director of Stanford’s Cancer Survivorship Program. There are other precision therapies, including cellular and targeted, that also help people live and thrive with metastatic cancer, she said.

Read more about these individuals and Drea’s experiences below.

Health changes to try in the new year

It’s resolution-setting season. And if tending to your health is one of your 2025 goals, here are some easy-to-implement tips we learned from experts this year to help you be healthier in the new year, writes reporter Lindsey Bever.

Advertisement

Here’s what Lindsey learned about one of those tips: not rinsing after brushing your teeth.

Viral TikTok videos have challenged the way many people brush their teeth. Their advice: Brush your teeth with a fluoride-containing toothpaste and spit — but don’t rinse.

Dental experts agree. They recommend brushing at least twice a day with a fluoride-containing toothpaste to help prevent cavities. And they say skipping the rinse after brushing allows the fluoride to stay on the teeth, providing added protection.

Those who prefer to rinse should rinse lightly with a small amount of water such as a sip from the hand or delay the rinse by about 20 minutes, said Brittany Seymour, a spokeswoman for the American Dental Association and an associate professor at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine.

Read more about the five tips below.

Advertisement

5 ways to hack the 15-minute clinic visit

Our Ask a Doctor columnist is Trisha S. Pasricha, a physician at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and an instructor in medicine at Harvard Medical School.

I feel so rushed during my doctor’s appointments. There’s hardly any time for my doctor to get to know me or to address what concerns me the most. What can I do with these hurried 15-minute visits?

Many patients lament how hurried their doctors’ appointments feel. Believe me, I get it. Because, as a doctor, I hate it, too.

In many cases, 15 minutes isn’t enough time for physicians to get all the information they need. Many doctors end up running abysmally late trying to ensure the 20 or so patients squished into their daily schedules feel heard and get the time they deserve.

Advertisement

Patients are suffering and frustrated with these crammed appointments, which also are a major driver of physician burnout.

So, as a patient, what can you do? If you have only 15 minutes with your doctor, here are a few tips to help you get the most out of the brief visit.

Read about the hacks below. And use our Ask a Doctor form to submit a question, and we may answer it in a future column.

Find your joy snack!

Here are a few things that brought us joy this week.

Let’s keep the conversation going. We want to hear from you! Email us at wellbeing@washpost.com.