LOADING ERROR LOADING

A new study found that several risk factors at age 60 may be strong predictors of dementia and cognitive impairment later in life.

The report, published earlier this month by the nonprofit research organization RAND, evaluated statistical associations by observing people when they were about 60 years old to estimate their risk for dementia later on. The study found that several factors, which are consistent with other research on the subject, were shown to be strong predictors of cognitive impairment or dementia, such as physical health, having had a stroke, cognitive abilities, functional limitations and particular genes.

Advertisement

But the study also revealed information about potential risk factors its authors said has either received less attention or had shown mixed results in prior research. For instance, the report found that people born in the South “face statistically significantly higher chances of developing dementia, even when controlling for many other factors.”

Peter Hudomiet, an economist at RAND and one of the lead researchers on the study, told ABC News earlier this month that some of the findings were “surprising.”

Advertisement

“Our research confirmed that factors like low cognitive test scores and poor general health in one’s 60s are strong predictors of dementia later in life,” he said, adding, “We also uncovered some surprising insights, such as the significant protective effect of education, particularly having a high school diploma, and the increased risk associated with living in the South.”

The report also found that people who did not have private health insurance at age 60 had an elevated chance of developing a cognitive impairment or dementia years later. Other risk factors included:

People who had never worked or worked only a few years

People who had diabetes or a body mass index of 35 or more at age 60

Those who either never drank alcohol or drank excessively

People who never exercised

Those who scored low on various physical measure tests

People who had less conscientious personality traits

People who engaged in fewer hobbies or learning-experience activities at around 60 years old were also shown to be at risk.

Advertisement

Black and Latino individuals had a statistically significantly higher risk of developing dementia, the study found, but Hudomiet told ABC News that when the researchers controlled certain factors among the participants, such as education and income, the racial disparities disappeared, “suggesting that the differences are related to socioeconomic factors,” he said.

Other risk factors, such as parental health, family size and marital history, however, were shown to be weak predictors for dementia or cognitive impairment, the study found.

The RAND researchers conducted the study by using data from the Health and Retirement Study, which evaluates waves of participants, with a sample size of about 20,000 per wave, over a long period of time. The RAND study assessed individuals who were interviewed in the HRS study at least once from 2000 to 2016, and it evaluated 181 potential dementia risk factors to predict cognitive impairment and dementia in two, four and 20 years after age 60.

Advertisement

But the study identified several limitations. For starters, the study evaluates statistical associations and therefore the findings do not prove causations between the evaluated risk factors and outcomes. Among the study’s other limitations is the fact that the results were based on an “algorithmic prediction model rather than a clinical assessment,” the report said. The study used data collected from clinical assessments conducted by physicians previously; no direct evaluations were done on participants for the results of this study.

Ryan Glatt, a brain health coach at the Pacific Neuroscience Institute in Santa Monica, California, told Women’s Health earlier this month that he thinks the study’s findings nonetheless “emphasize the importance of lifestyle interventions, such as regular physical exercise, maintaining social and cognitive engagement, and managing chronic health conditions like diabetes.”

The RAND study’s authors said that their findings may help indicate that certain lifestyle interventions can be beneficial for reducing one’s risk of dementia or cognitive impairment.

Advertisement

“Older individuals striving to maintain high cognitive function for a longer time might benefit from early lifestyle modifications, such as performing physical exercise, working additional years, engaging in hobbies and novel information activities after retirement, and maintaining good physical health,” the authors said.

More than 55 million people around the world have dementia, and it’s important to be aware of potential risk factors. Though there are certain risk factors that are out of your control, there are some lifestyle changes you can make to potentially reduce your risk of dementia or cognitive impairment.

Ways To Reduce Your Risk Of Dementia

Eating a healthy diet, exercising regularly, maintaining good sleep habits and refraining form smoking have all been shown to reduce your risk of dementia.

Advertisement

Dr. Zaldy Tan, director of the Cedars-Sinai Health System Memory and Aging Program Neurology, previously told HuffPost that staying social is also key.

“As social beings, the human brain thrives on interacting with others. … When this does not happen, our memory and cognition can decline over time,” Tan said.

“Seniors should undertake at least one positive social interaction every day,” Dr. Faisal Tai, psychiatrist and founder of PsychPlus, also previously told HuffPost. “Whether it’s a visit from a kind neighbor, a chat with the cashier at your grocery store, or enjoying a phone or video call with a grandchild or friend.”

Advertisement

Dr. Dylan Wint, director of the Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, has shared several tips for ways you can challenge your brain with new activities. Research has shown that older adults who engage in activities that keep them mentally sharp are at a lower risk of developing dementia.