2025 is about to begin, and Apple looks set to kick off the year with several strong product launches. Here’s a look at five new products expected to arrive soon in early 2025.

M4 MacBook Air

Apple’s most popular Mac is about to get its next upgrade. Here’s what to expect from the new MacBook Air in early 2025:

M4 chip

16GB RAM standard

Nano-texture display option

12MP Center Stage camera

Likely improved battery performance thanks to M4

Same design with 13-inch and 15-inch sizes

Overall it should be a solid update for the MacBook Air. As for timing, signs point to a March release—right on schedule with when the M3 MacBook Air launched in early 2024.

iPhone SE 4

Apple’s next iPhone will be the one most people should probably buy. It’s the new iPhone SE 4, which is expected to debut in March.

The new iPhone SE will feature:

an iPhone 14-style design, with OLED and no Home Button

Face ID and a notch

the A18 chip just added to the iPhone 16

Apple Intelligence support, which is otherwise exclusive to 16 and 15 Pro models

8GB of RAM

48MP main camera, likely similar to the iPhone 16’s

USB-C port

and the first ever Apple-designed 5G modem

All of this at a compelling, budget-friendly price point—likely under $499.

‘HomePad’ smart display

The product I’m personally most excited about is Apple’s forthcoming ‘HomePad’ smart display.

Mark Gurman detailed the forthcoming product extensively in a recent Bloomberg piece, which should bring fresh energy to Apple’s Home product lineup. Expected features, per Gurman, include:

Focus is on Siri, Communication, and Home control

Runs Safari, Music, Notes, and several other Apple apps but no App Store

Device is touch, but will mostly be operated by voice through Apple Intelligence’s new App Intents

New OS is a blend of watchOS and iOS StandBy mode; dynamic UI shifts based on user distance

Size is roughly two iPhones side-by-side, with about a 6-inch screen

Device has speakers, FaceTime camera, and battery

Apple is working on wall attachments, plus a speaker base for desks, tables, kitchens, and nightstands

Heavy security focus as well as video/audio intercom feature that works with other home devices

Home Screen is customizable with the classic Apple widgets and Home controls

Taps into video doorbells and video cameras, with support for security alerts

I can’t wait to see Apple’s renewed push into Home products come to fruition. Gurman says the HomePad is coming in March, though one report says it might get pushed until later.

iPad, 11th generation

After a barren 2023 for iPad, Apple was originally expected to update its entire iPad lineup in 2024. We did get new iPad Pro, iPad Air, and iPad mini models, but the base iPad has been left unchanged.

In early 2025 though, the iPad will get updated to an 11th generation device. We don’t know much about the new iPad, other than that it will get a faster A-series chip, likely one with 8GB of RAM that supports Apple Intelligence. It will potentially feature Apple’s new Wi-Fi and Bluetooth networking chip too.

Mostly, it sounds like a standard iterative update for Apple’s most affordable iPad.

Wildcard: Apple Watch SE 3, M3 iPad Air, Home products

Finally, there are several other Apple products that could round out the company’s early 2025 releases. While it’s possible we won’t see any of these devices until mid-year or later, it’s highly likely at least one will be among Apple’s earlier waves of product launches.

The last Apple Watch SE arrived in 2022, over two years ago now. Leading up to Apple’s September 2024 event, rumors pointed to a launch for the SE 3—but it never materialized.

Previous Apple Watch SE models have debuted in September, but there are two reasons to believe the new SE might arrive in March or April instead.

if the device was indeed targeting September 2024 but just missed it, Apple has little reason to wait a whole extra year an Apple Watch SE launch could pair nicely with the iPhone SE 4’s release

As for the iPad Air, Apple just revved the device in May with the M2 chip, but rumors indicate an M3 upgrade is coming before long. We may have to wait until around May, but timing specifics are uncertain, and there’s very little known about the new model.

Two other options for early 2025 are the HomePod mini 2 and new Apple TV 4K. While we haven’t heard specific rumors about timing, Apple could target these launches to coincide with the HomePad as part of a broader new Home device strategy.

Apple’s early 2025 products: wrap-up

Apple’s plans could always change, but if these five or more products do arrive in the early part of 2025, it will make for an especially strong start to the year for the company. All leading up to what’s sure to be an exciting WWDC and fall product launch season.

Which of Apple’s products coming in early 2025 are you most excited for? Let us know in the comments.

Best iPhone accessories