Alongside our Game of the Year top 10 list and personal picks from the Push Square editorial team, we are recognising the best PS5 games of 2024 in select categories. Today is the turn of the best PSVR2 game of 2024.

For anyone who didn't quite realise their ambitions of becoming a professional trombone player, Holy Wow Studios has you covered with the next best thing. Trombone Champ: Unflattened finally lets you join an orchestra for your big solo moment on stage, blasting out classic songs as well as original tracks made by the developer. It's a complete blast — quite literally.

Read our Trombone Champ: Unflattened PSVR2 review through the link.

Silver Trophy: Vertigo 2

The chances of Half-Life: Alyx making its way to PSVR2 were second to none even just a few months after the Sony headset released, so any hopes at this point should have been well and truly extinguished. However, Vertigo 2 from Zulubo Productions could at least somewhat scratch the itch Valve refuses to touch. This FPS looks to emulate the Half-Life 1 experience with a campaign spanning labs and office areas to alien environments, all the while delivering solid shooter action.

Read our Vertigo 2 PSVR2 review through the link.

Gold Trophy: Vendetta Forever

Blending puzzling and shooting into what at times feels like a John Wick simulator, Vendetta Forever is a game all about flow, and boy does it. From first-person, you'll drop bad guys with a flick of the trigger in a stylised art direction that helps bring variety and interest to every level. The only way you can move is by teleporting to weapons in the hands of enemies, so the challenge comes from both killing them and how you're going to move forward. It feels amazing to play, and that euphoria goes a long way in VR.

Read our Vendetta Forever PSVR2 review through the link.

Platinum Trophy: Metro Awakening

Switching out sun-speckled zombies for radiated mutants, Vertigo Games really showed its pedigree with Metro Awakening, a VR game that manages to capture the dark and dank atmosphere of this cult-classic series. Whether it was burning away cobwebs with your lighter or wiping the condensation off your gas mask visor, Metro Awakening pulls off all the immersive stops with the PSVR2 to deliver one of the very best experiences Sony's headset has to offer.

Read our Metro Awakening PSVR2 review through the link.

Do you agree with our picks for the best PSVR2 game of 2024? Post your thoughts in the comments below and check out more of our Game of the Year coverage through the link.