

		Latest	



		AI	



		Amazon	



		Apps	



		Biotech & Health	



		Climate	



		Cloud Computing	



		Commerce	



		Crypto	



		Enterprise	



		EVs	



		Fintech	



		Fundraising	



		Gadgets	



		Gaming	



		Google	



		Government & Policy	



		Hardware	



		Instagram	



		Layoffs	



		Media & Entertainment	



		Meta	



		Microsoft	



		Privacy	



		Robotics	



		Security	



		Social	



		Space	



		Startups	



		TikTok	



		Transportation	



		Venture	



		Events	



		Startup Battlefield	



		StrictlyVC	



		Newsletters	



		Podcasts	



		Videos	



		Partner Content	



		TechCrunch Brand Studio	



		Crunchboard	



		Contact Us	

Google has offered up its own proposal in a recent antitrust case that saw the US Department of Justice argue that Google must sell its Chrome browser.
US District Court Judge Amit Mehta ruled in August that Google had acted illegally to maintain a monopoly in online search, with the DOJ then proposing a number of remedies, including the sale of Chrome, the spinoff of its Android operating system, and a prohibition on entering into exclusionary search agreements with browser and phone companies.
Google filed an alternativee proposal Friday, with the company’s vice president of regulatory affairs Lee-Anne Mullholland claiming in a blog post that the DOJ’s proposal reflects an “interventionist agenda” that “goes far beyond what the Court’s decision is actually about.”
Mulholland added that the “bigger problem is that DOJ’s proposal would harm American consumers and undermine America’s global technology leadership at a critical juncture — such as by requiring us to share people’s private search queries with foreign and domestic rivals, and restricting our ability to innovate and improve our products.”
As an alternative, Google proposes that it still be allowed to make search deals with companies like Apple and Mozilla, but they should have the option to set different defaults on different platforms (for example, iPhone vs. iPad) and in different browsing modes.
The company also proposes that Android device manufacturers could have more flexibility pre-loading multiple search engines, as well as with pre-loading Google apps without Google Search or Chrome.
Judge Mehta is expected to rule on remedies next year, with a hearing scheduled for April. Mulholland said Google isn’t just planning to negotiate over remedies — it also plans to appeal Mehta’s August ruling against the company. But she wrote, “Before we file our appeal, the legal process requires that the parties outline what remedies would best respond to the Court’s decision.”
Topics
Anthony Ha is TechCrunch’s weekend editor. Previously, he worked as a tech reporter at Adweek, a senior editor at VentureBeat, a local government reporter at the Hollister Free Lance, and vice president of content at a VC firm. He lives in New York City.	
 Apple might be working on a smart doorbell

 OpenAI’s GPT-5 reportedly falling short of expectations

 OpenAI announces new o3 model — but you can’t use it yet

 EV startup Canoo places remaining employees on a ‘mandatory unpaid break’

 After causing outrage on the first day of Y Combinator, AI code editor PearAI lands $1M seed

 OpenAI announces new o3 models

 Ransomware attack on health giant Ascension hits 5.6 million patients

Subscribe for the industry’s biggest tech news
Every weekday and Sunday, you can get the best of TechCrunch’s coverage.
TechCrunch's AI experts cover the latest news in the fast-moving field.
Every Monday, gets you up to speed on the latest advances in aerospace.
Startups are the core of TechCrunch, so get our best coverage delivered weekly.
By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice.
© 2024 Yahoo.