Honda and Nissan have formally entered talks to combine their companies by summer 2026, the companies said Monday, under a plan that would create the world’s third-largest automaker by sales. The planned merger would bring Japan’s second- and third-largest carmakers under a joint holding company, according to a news release. Mitsubishi, a longtime Nissan partner, also has agreed to join the negotiations. If it comes to fruition, “we will be able to deliver even greater value to a wider customer base,” Nissan chief executive Makoto Uchida said in a statement.

The announcement comes amid the broader industry’s ongoing transition away from fossil fuels, allowing the three companies to combine resources in a global electric vehicle marketplace in which BYD, a Chinese conglomerate, and Tesla have staked out decisive leads.

Advertisement

Honda and Nissan are legacy Japanese automakers whose vehicles have garnered a reputation for reliability and affordability. A combined company would trail only Volkswagen and Toyota in global sales.

Honda was officially founded in 1948 by Soichiro Honda, who took generator engines that the former Japanese imperial army had been using for wireless radios and modified them to go on bicycles, according to the company’s corporate history page. From there the company began making motorcycles and farm equipment, and it expanded into North America starting in 1959.

Nissan is even older, emerging from the company known as Kwaishinsha Motor Car Works founded in Tokyo in 1911, according to its website. It began mass-producing two-door cars, mini pickup trucks and delivery vans starting in the late 1930s.

Advertisement

Both companies are mainstays of the U.S. auto market, with Honda’s CR-V and Nissan’s Rogue — both midsize SUVs — among the top-selling cars this year, according to Car and Driver.

But both brands have experienced a drop-off in sales, in part because higher interest rates have made it more expensive to finance vehicle purchases. In a Nov. 6 presentation for investors, Honda said its overall sales results were lower year-to-date because of growing competition in China, despite making gains in Japan and the United States.

Analysts have said a partnership with Honda would provide a needed infusion for Nissan, which is cutting thousands of jobs and slashing production to get costs under control.

Honda, Nissan and Mitsubishi already have a partnership to work on vehicle intelligence and electrification, which includes technological collaboration with the goal of achieving “carbon neutrality and a zero-traffic-accident society.”

Advertisement

The proposed merger would have Honda and Nissan operating as subsidiaries. Both would be removed from the Tokyo Stock Exchange and replaced by shares of the new holding company.

If negotiations prove successful, the new company would have the scale to better compete in the global auto market. Last year, Honda built nearly 4.2 million cars and sold nearly 4 million globally, while Nissan produced and sold about 3.4 million. By comparison, Toyota and General Motors sold about 10 million and 6.2 million vehicles, respectively.

Nissan has manufacturing sites in the United States but has more recently been scaling up factories in Mexico. President-elect Donald Trump has promised to impose tariffs of 25 percent on goods from Mexico, along with a broader 10 to 20 percent universal tariff on all imports.