The Mega Millions jackpot has soared to an estimated $944 million for a drawing on Christmas Eve, marking the seventh-largest prize in the lottery’s history, though a lucky winner—facing one-in-302-million odds—would take home less than one-third of that amount after paying required taxes.
The prize is the seventh-largest in the lottery’s history.
A ticket holder matching all five white balls and one “megaball” for the jackpot can select a payout over 30 annual installments or a one-time lump sum of $429.4 million.
The lump sum would be reduced to $326.3 million after a mandatory 24% federal tax withholding, while a federal marginal rate as high as 37%—depending on the winner’s taxable income and other tax deductions—would cut the prize to $270.5 million.
Annual installments would pay an average of $19.8 million with a 37% federal rate.
Some states tax lottery winnings, including rates as high as 10.9% in New York ($46.8 million) and as low as 2.5% in Arizona ($10.7 million), though other states like California and Texas don’t tax winnings.
Get Forbes Breaking News Text Alerts: We’re launching text message alerts so you'll always know the biggest stories shaping the day’s headlines. Text “Alerts” to (201) 335-0739 or sign up here.
Mega Millions’ next drawing is on Tuesday night. Powerball will hold its next drawing Saturday night for an $88 million jackpot. That grand prize includes a $40.2 million lump sum option that would be reduced to $30.5 million after a 24% mandatory tax withholding or to $25.3 million with a federal marginal rate as high as 37%.
The jackpot is the seventh-largest prize in Mega Millions history, trailing six other jackpots that eclipsed $1 billion. One of the top prizes—a $1.1 billion jackpot—was won in March, while two were won last year, including the largest-ever jackpot of $1.6 billion. The Mega Millions jackpot has only been won once on Christmas Eve, though the $68 million prize in 2002—the lottery’s first year—eventually went unclaimed, according to the lottery.
2 million. That’s how many non-jackpot-winning tickets were drawn Friday night, including five tickets that matched all five white balls to win $1 million.
Mega Millions announced rule changes to the lottery in October that it said would provide players with “bigger jackpots, better odds” and new rewards. One of the “megaballs” was removed from the draw as part of the changes, improving odds from one-in-25 to one-in-24. The lottery will also start with a larger jackpot, implement a “randomized” multiplier for non-jackpot-prizes and no break-even prizes, meaning a player would win at least $10 if they match a “megaball.”
One Community. Many Voices. Create a free account to share your thoughts. 
Our community is about connecting people through open and thoughtful conversations. We want our readers to share their views and exchange ideas and facts in a safe space.
In order to do so, please follow the posting rules in our site's Terms of Service.  We've summarized some of those key rules below. Simply put, keep it civil.
Your post will be rejected if we notice that it seems to contain:
User accounts will be blocked if we notice or believe that users are engaged in:
So, how can you be a power user?
Thanks for reading our community guidelines.  Please read the full list of posting rules found in our site's Terms of Service.