Watch CBS News

    By
                        
                      Marissa Wenzke


December 21, 2024 / 1:44 PM PST
          / KCAL News
        
TSA agents at Los Angeles International Airport found knives, replica firearms and more in what the security agency has described as an "extremely concerning" discovery inside a woman's carry-on luggage, officials said Friday.
The collection of dozens of prohibited items that agents discovered when the woman was passing through security at LAX's Terminal 4 Sunday night for a flight to Philadephia "surprised even the longest tenured and most experienced TSA officer," the Transportation Security Administration said in a statement. The bag was flagged to be checked after going through a routine X-ray screening.
"The sheer number of prohibited items discovered in a single carry-on bag is extremely concerning," LAX TSA Federal Security Director Jason Pantages said in the statement.
Eighty-two consumer grade fireworks, two replica guns, three knives and a container of pepper spray were found in the passenger's bag, leading to agents calling in airport police who then interviewed the woman and called in a bomb squad, according to TSA.
Bomb squad investigators confiscated the fireworks, which TSA says are never allowed anywhere on an aircraft. However, the security agency said knives and replica firearms can make it onto a flight — but only when packed inside checked luggage.
TSA noted pepper spray can be carried inside carry-on luggage but must be limited to one 4-once container that has a safety mechanism protecting against accidental discharge. There are also other limitations, which can depend on the airline involved.
"Self-defense sprays containing more than 2 percent by mass of tear gas are prohibited in checked baggage," the TSA statement says. "Some airlines do not allow for transport of pepper spray, so travelers are encouraged to contact their individual airline."
Given the busy holiday travel season, which AAA predicts will hit record highs nationwide, TSA officials said the incident should serve as a reminder for passengers on what they can and can't bring aboard flights and what steps should be taken before flying.
"This traveler should have followed TSA's tried and true advice — unpack your bag before you pack it to ensure you don't bring any prohibited items to the security checkpoint," the TSA statement says.
No other details, such as whether the woman was detained or taken into custody, were released by the agency.
Marissa Wenzke is a journalist based in Los Angeles. She has a bachelor's degree in political science from UC Santa Barbara and is a graduate of Columbia Journalism School.

© 2024 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.

©2024 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.