A recent rumor has suggested that Amazon founder Jeff Bezos was planning a $600 million wedding with fiancee Lauren Sanchez. Now, Bezos has addressed the rumors directly on social media.

Here is what Jeff Bezos said about the marriage rumors.

Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez wedding rumors explained

Jeff Bezos shot down the marriage rumors claiming he was spending $600 million on an Aspen wedding with Lauren Sanchez.

Bezos commented on the rumors on X (formerly Twitter), replying to a post from fellow billionaire Bill Ackman, who had also shot down the rumor, claiming no one could spend the hefty amount unless a house was bought for each guest. “Furthermore, this whole thing is completely false — none of this is happening,” Bezos posted. “The old adage ‘don’t believe everything you read’ is even more true today than it ever has been.”

Advertisement Advertisement

Advertisement

He then warned netizens to be careful about false reports circulating across the web.

Lauren Sanchez also shot down the rumor via her Instagram stories, sharing a screengrab of Bezos’ tweet. “Not True,” she captioned the story.

This rumor supposedly originated from a report by the Daily Mail. This is due to numerous websites covering the rumor story citing the outlet. The Daily Mail attributed the rumor to their sources, stating that they claimed that Bezos and Sanchez bought the restaurant Matsuhisa in Colorado for functions on December 26 and 27, followed by the wedding day on December 28.

The outlet also stated that they learned from a notable Aspen community member that Bezos and his group arrived at the town on Saturday via his private jet. Furthermore, a rumor suggested that Bezos’ wedding would take place at Kevin Costner’s Dunbar Ranch.

Advertisement Advertisement

Advertisement

Bezos has not officially elaborated on his wedding plans. However, Sanchez mentioned in a Today Show appearance last month that she was “very excited” about the wedding and had been thinking about her dress for the occasion. “I have to say, I do have a Pinterest, I’m just like every other bride, so I do have a Pinterest board,” she added.

Jeff Bezos and Lauren Sanchez got engaged in May 2023. They reportedly started dating in 2018. However, they only went public with their relationship one year later.

Originally reported by Abdul Azim Naushad on ComingSoon.

The post What Did Jeff Bezos Say About Lauren Sanchez Wedding Rumors? appeared first on Mandatory.