PHOENIX — Rutgers went from running all over the field to running into a brick wall.

The Scarlet Knights had completely different halves offensively during Thursday’s 44-41 loss to Kansas State in the Rate Bowl at Chase Field, building a 17-point lead thanks to one of its best 30 minutes in the past decade then blowing it in part because of major struggles on that end after halftime.

Rutgers (7-6, 4-5) scored 27 points in the first half against the Wildcats (9-4, 5-4), its most points in a half against a Power Five opponent since 2015 (31 against Maryland). The Scarlet Knights racked up 319 yards of total offense. Quarterback Athan Kaliakmanis threw for 170 of them on 8-of-18 passing, and he and young running backs Antwan Raymond and Ja’Shon Benjamin rumbled for 149 yards and three touchdowns on the ground.

Then, after scoring a touchdown on its opening drive of the second half, they could barely move the ball. Rutgers gained just 20 total yards and scored a single touchdown on its final six drives, getting crushed by an aggressive Wildcats defense for which it had no answer. The Wildcats “blitzed the dog out of these guys in the third and fourth quarter and we got some hits on the QB,” according to Kansas State coach Chris Klieman, and the Scarlet Knights were unable to adjust.

Part of the reason for the significant shift, per head coach Greg Schiano, was out of their control: The Scarlet Knights saw their headsets go down midway through the third quarter, right around the time their offense fell apart. It prompted coordinator Kirk Ciarrocca to leave his booth and come down to the field, and Rutgers was not the same from there.

“(Kansas State) played better and we had some issues,” Schiano said. “Some of them were technical issues, some of them were coaching issues. We had to get coach Ciarrocca down from the box because our headsets weren’t working correctly. I felt back. Certainly, one of his secrets is calling the game from up there. But you know what? I tip my hat to Kansas State. They controlled the game in the second half with their offense and their defense.”

Kaliakmanis saw his production drop from that point, going 3-of-8 on the final six drives — including a back-breaking interception that helped fuel Kansas State’s comeback — and gaining zero yards on the ground in the second half while getting sacked three times for a total loss of 12 yards. He put the blame for the bad play on his shoulders, saying he did not expect the defensive back to undercut the route from where he was when the ball was thrown, but he admitted the communication issue was “different” and a “weird situation.”

“(Ciarrocca) can’t see some of the things he could see in the box when he’s on the field,” Kaliakmanis said. “I really don’t know how much that affects him, to be honest, but that was just a whole weird situation that’s never happened to me before. But you got to do what you got to do to win the games.”

Still, the quarterback was encouraged with what he saw offensively: “If you would’ve told me before the game we were going to put up 41 points, I would’ve said that’s a very good thing.” The Scarlet Knights received little help from a defense that was shredded to the tune of 542 total yards — a Kansas State school record — including 347 rushing yards.

But while Rutgers put together one of its best offensive stretches of the season to start, it could not close the door on its dynamic opponent. And once the Wildcats completed the comeback, the Scarlet Knights could not come close to answering due to an offense that fell off a cliff in the final 20 minutes.

“It was a very busy day out there, and then the headsets go down and we can’t communicate,” Schiano said. “There was a lot going on today. Again, my hat is off to Kansas State because they played a heck of a ball game, and the job that they do is very impressive.”

Thank you for relying on us to provide the journalism you can trust. Please consider supporting us with a subscription.

Brian Fonseca may be reached at bfonseca@njadvancemedia.com.