A Christmas Day Full Of Fantastic Finishes

NEW YORK – The NBA delivered its most-watched Christmas Day in five years, averaging 5.25 million viewers per game in the U.S. across ABC, ESPN, ESPN2, Disney+ and ESPN+, according to Nielsen Fast Nationals. Viewership was up 84% vs. last year.

The Los Angeles Lakers’ 115-113 victory over the Golden State Warriors – which featured a thrilling duel between LeBron James and Stephen Curry – led the way averaging 7.76 million viewers and peaking with 8.32 million viewers at 10:30 p.m. ET. It was the most-watched NBA regular season and Christmas Day game in five years and up 499% vs. the comparable window last year.

To begin the day, the New York Knicks’ 117-114 win over the San Antonio Spurs averaged 4.91 million viewers, making it the most-watched Christmas Day opener in 13 years and up 98% vs. the comparable window last year. All five Christmas Day games saw year-over-year viewership increases, including Philadelphia 76ers/Boston Celtics (5.16 million viewers, up 3%), Minnesota Timberwolves/Dallas Mavericks (4.38 million viewers, up 6%) and Denver Nuggets/Phoenix Suns (3.84 million viewers, up 161%). Nuggets/Suns was the most-watched late window ever on Christmas Day.

The NBA generated more than 500 million video views across its social media platforms on Christmas Day – an all-time record. The five-game slate also generated the most-viewed Christmas Day ever on NBA League Pass. NBA Christmas Day games were distributed in 214 countries and territories in 60 languages.

CLOSEST #NBAXmas EVER. 🎄 Bridges, Wemby duel in Knicks W

🎄 Ant comes up CLUTCH for Wolves

🎄 Sixers come back in Boston

🎄 Reaves wins it for Lakers

🎄 KD, Beal power Suns Today’s average margin of victory was 5 points… the closest EVER for a Christmas Day with 5+ games. pic.twitter.com/ZAi9Lc7ic4 — NBA (@NBA) December 26, 2024

NBA viewership across ESPN platforms this season is up 4% vs. last year. NBA games this season have driven ESPN and TNT to be the most-viewed cable networks among people under 50 on 21 of 24 nights. Leading into Christmas Day, NBA viewership across ABC, ESPN and TNT increased every week of December, with an average week-over-week increase of 7%. Viewership for Emirates NBA Cup games on ESPN and TNT were up 6% vs. non-NBA Cup games during the same timeframe.

Season to date, the NBA has generated a record 11 billion views across its social and digital channels. The NBA has the largest social media following among all professional sports leagues and has one of the largest social media communities of any brand.