The 2024 Armed Forces Bowl pits the Oklahoma Sooners against the Navy Midshipmen on Friday afternoon. Navy is rolling into bowl season at 9-3 and is coming off a 31-13 upset victory in the Army-Navy Game. Oklahoma, meanwhile, is 6-6 after losing five of its last seven games, though it is coming in off a big upset of Alabama. Oklahoma will be without at least five starters who entered the transfer portal, including quarterback Jackson Arnold. Star linebacker Danny Stutsman and safety Billy Bowman have opted out of this game.

Kickoff is set for noon ET at Amon G. Carter Stadium in Fort Worth, Texas. After opening at -4.5, the Sooners are now favored by 1.5 points in the latest Oklahoma vs. Navy odds, while the over/under is 44 points per SportsLine consensus. Before locking in any Navy vs. Oklahoma picks or Armed Forces Bowl bets, you'll want to see the college football predictions and betting advice from the proven computer simulation model at SportsLine.

The model simulates every FBS game 10,000 times. Since its inception, it has generated a betting profit of well over $2,000 for $100 players on its top-rated college spread football picks, and it went a profitable 43-35 on all top-rated picks this season while also nailing all four first-round College Football Playoff winners. Anyone following at sportsbooks and on betting apps has seen impressive returns.

The model has set its sights on Oklahoma vs. Navy in the Armed Forces Bowl 2024. You can head to SportsLine now to see the model's picks. Here are several college football betting lines for the Navy vs. Oklahoma game:

Oklahoma vs. Navy spread: Oklahoma -1.5

Oklahoma vs. Navy over/under: 44 points

Oklahoma vs. Navy money line: Oklahoma -115, Navy -105

Oklahoma vs. Navy picks: See picks at SportsLine

Oklahoma vs. Navy streaming: FuboTV (Try for free)

Why Oklahoma can cover

The Sooners joined the SEC and got off to a 4-1 start after capturing their first conference win at Auburn on Sept. 28. The Sooners would go on to lose to Texas 34-3 in their next game to begin a stretch where they lost four of five. However, Oklahoma did get back into the win column with a tuneup game against Maine and then earned bowl eligibility with a stunning 24-3 upset of Alabama. Oklahoma ran for 257 yards in that game and completely stifled the Alabama offense, limiting the Crimson Tide to 237 yards while forcing three turnovers.

Freshman quarterback Michael Hawkins Jr. split time with Arnold this season, appearing in six games and starting two, so he's a capable replacement who will be eager to make a case for himself after Oklahoma recently added top-ranked portal quarterback John Mateer from Washington State for next season. See which team to pick here.

Why Navy can cover

Brian Newberry guided the Midshipmen to bowl eligibility for the first time since 2019. Navy also won the Commander-in-Chief's Trophy for the first time in five years as well. The service academies aren't impact nearly as much by the portal and opt-outs as other programs and Navy's roster appears to be completely intact for this matchup.

Quarterback Blake Horvath played a major role in the wins over Army and Air Force this season. He threw for 134 yards and also rushed for 115 yards and two touchdowns against Air Force then threw for 107 yards and two touchdowns while rushing for 196 yards and two more scores against Army. Horvath also had a six-touchdown game against Memphis. He accounted for 28 touchdowns while topping 1,000 yards as a runner and receiver. The Midshipmen have used their stellar running attack (249.3 yards per game) to control games and are 8-3 against the spread over their last 11 contests. See which team to pick here.

How to make Oklahoma vs. Navy picks

The model has simulated Navy vs. Oklahoma 10,000 times and the results are in. The model is leaning Over on the point total, and it's also generated a point-spread pick that is hitting in well over 70% of simulations. You can only see the model's pick at SportsLine.

So who wins Oklahoma vs. Navy in the 2024 Armed Forces Bowl, and which side of the spread hits well over 70% of the time? Visit SportsLine now to see which side of the spread to jump on, all from the advanced model that is up well over $2,000 on top-rated spread picks since its inception, and find out.