Pat Narduzzi clearly didn’t go to the Herm Edwards School of Coaching.

Social media and college football fans ripped the Pittsburgh coach for opting for a conservative strategy that ultimately backfired in Pittsburgh’s 48-46 loss in six overtimes to Toledo on Thursday in the GameAbove Sports Bowl.

Narduzzi opted for a game-tying field goal in the second overtime from the one-yard line instead of going for the win.

4 Pitt coach Pat Narduzzi during the GameAbove Sports Bowl on Dec. 26. Getty Images

“Fourth-and-1, if you don’t get it, you lose the game,” Narduzzi said. “I don’t want it to end like that. I want our kids to make plays. To me, I always put it in the kids’ hands. For a coach to make a decision to lose the game or win the game, I am not for that.”

Many had issues with Narduzzi’s decision due to college football’s overtime rules.

Entering overtime in a 30-all tie, both teams scored touchdowns in the first overtime stanza before Toledo (8-5) kicked a field goal in the second overtime.

In the second overtime, teams are required to go for two if they score a touchdown.

Pittsburgh, which received the ball second, moved the ball to the one-yard line and faced a fourth-and-1.

Many believed Narduzzi should have gone for it since Toledo would have no chance to match and a field goal would force Pittsburgh to start defending two-point plays.

4 Toledo celebrates its six-overtime win over Pittsburgh. Kimberly P. Mitchell / USA TODAY NETWORK via Imagn Images

Teams trade two-point plays from the third overtime forward.

Narduzzi, though, opted for the game-tying field goal.

The teams traded three successful two-point conversions before Toledo scored on its fourth attempt and Pittsburgh could not match to end the game.

4 This field goal tied the game, but many wanted Pitt to go for the win. Getty Images

The Panthers finished their season with six straight losses after starting 7-0.

“A coach makes a call, I’m not for that,” Narduzzi said. “I don’t care on the road, at home. I want our players to go make plays.”

He added: “I think the overtime is a great system. That’s kind of the way it goes.”

4 Narduzzi’s team lost six straight to end the season. AP

Many would have preferred if the coach made the call.

Fantasy football guru JJ Zachariason tweeted: “I’m glad the world is witnessing how egregious Pat Narduzzi is. Unfortunately, Pitt fans know this isn’t out of the ordinary.”

Barstool personality Dan “Big Cat” Katz had some NSFW feelings.

Bleacher Report’s Bryston Stricker posted: “I mean jesus christ man. Narduzzi just kicked a FG from the ONE YARD LINE… Next play: HAS TO SCORE FROM THE TWO AND STOP THE OTHER TEAM These people should not be millionaires man.”