SamraSource
Joel Klatt decided he’s heard enough from Lane Kiffin, pushing back on the Ole Miss head coach’s commentary regarding the first round of the College Football Playoff.
Kiffin hasn’t been shy about his sour grapes regarding the Rebels missing the CFP, passed over for teams like the Indiana Hoosiers and the SMU Mustangs. With the latter down four touchdowns against Penn State, the Ole Miss leader took to social media to voice his displeasure regarding how the entire ordeal has unfolded. 
Get your team’s official College Football Playoff watch from AXIA by CLICKING HERE: “Watches that tell so much more than time”
“Way to keep us on the edge of our seats Committee. Riveting,” Kiffin said sarcastically, letting the CFP Selection Committee know his true feelings about the performance of Indiana and SMU.
Well, Klatt has heard enough of Kiffin’s criticism, responding to let the Rebels leader know they should’ve taken care of business when the opportunity was firmly within their grasp.
Save $30 on your first month of Fubo by CLICKING HERE NOW!
For a limited time, you can get your first month of Fubo for as low as $49.99. Stream ESPN, ABC, CBS, FOX, NBC and 200+ top channels of live TV and sports without cable. (Participating plans only. Taxes and fees may apply.)
“If your team played half as well as you tweet you would likely be in,” Klatt responded, setting the social media world ablaze. 
Shot fired at First Take, Stephen A. Smith
Early Rose Bowl line released
Quarterfinal matchups set
ESPN host rips CFP amid blowout
Ole Miss HC called out for tweets
By clicking "Subscribe to Newsletter", I agree to On3's Privacy Notice, Terms, and use of my personal information described therein.
Alas, Kiffin’s opinion regarding Ole Miss missing the CFP hasn’t changed since the decision was made official by the Selection Committee. He’s made his thoughts clear on numerous occasions, pointing out the difference of playing in the SEC and playing in other conferences.
“I think that this is what you’re probably going to have to get used to as fans, teams having multiple losses in this conference,” Kiffin said, via Michael Katz on X. “… It’s why it’s just different, it’s just totally different, and these comparisons of other conferences and the ACC and the Big 12.
“You might as well be in different leagues. Not conferences, different leagues. Like, here’s the NFL, here’s the SEC, here’s those few Big Ten teams and then here’s everybody else.”
Regardless, Joel Klatt and many other college football pundits are tired of the bellyaching from Lane Kiffin and many other SEC fans. Moving forward, the College Football Playoff Selection Committee might adjust the way they rank their teams, but there’s nothing left to be done in 2024 but let the bracket play out.
Shot fired at First Take, Stephen A. Smith
Early Rose Bowl line released
Quarterfinal matchups set
ESPN host rips CFP amid blowout
Ole Miss HC called out for tweets
© 2024 On3 Media, Inc. All rights reserved. On3 is a registered trademark of On3 Media, Inc.