If not listed, please contact your TV provider.
It was a white out for Penn State and a wipe out for SMU. 
The (6) Nittany Lions cruised to a 38-10 win over (11) SMU to move on to the next round of the College Football Playoff. The Nittany Lions overcame a sluggish start on offense thanks to a defense that had not one, but two pick sixes in the first 17 minutes of action to stake the offense to a 14-0 lead. 
Penn State's defense would not relent through the rest of the game, and its offense eventually helped out. Due to the game script, quarterback Drew Allar and the passing game weren't asked to do much, but running backs Kaytron Allen and Nick Singleton didn't mind carrying the load. Penn State finished the day with 189 yards rushing while averaging 5.6 yards per carry minus three sacks. Singleton led the way with 89 yards on 13 carries with a touchdown, while Allen had 70 on 11 with two scores. 
All-world everyman Tyler Warren had a quiet day, rushing once for six yards and catching four passes for 33 yards. 
As for SMU, it was an absolute nightmare of a performance. The two pick sixes from quarterback Kevin Jennings weren't his only turnovers in the game; he threw a third interception with SMU in the red zone that killed a scoring chance that could've cut into Penn State's lead in the first half. Jennings was under immediate pressure on seemingly every snap throughout the afternoon, and at times it felt like he was looking for the oncoming blitzer instead of his receivers. 
And for good reason. The Penn State defense finished with three sacks and 11 tackles for loss while holding SMU to 3.5 yards per play. The result was the worst performance we've seen from the SMU offense all season. The Mustangs had managed to score at least 28 points in 11 of their 12 games this season. The only time they failed to do so before today was in an 18-15 loss to BYU in September. 
Penn State will face Boise State at the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Eve. 
CBS Sports was here with you throughout the game with updates, highlights and analysis. Read on below for takeaways from Saturday's CFP first-round matchup. 
On Selection Sunday, the final debate was between whether an 11-2 SMU with two losses was more worthy of the final at-large spot than a 9-3 Alabama team. The committee made its choice, SMU got manhandled and now you will hear plenty of cries that Alabama should've been in the field.
Would Alabama have made for a more competitive game? Possibly! I mean, it was 38-3 in the fourth quarter. There's a low bar to clear.
However, let's not forget that while Kevin Jennings threw three interceptions today, Alabama's Jalen Milroe threw three interceptions of his own in Alabama's 21-point loss to Oklahoma. That's the game that knocked the Crimson Tide out of contention, so we can't assume anything.
Nor should we. Instead, we should be asking if the playoff format needs to be changed. If we reserved the first-round byes for the top four ranked teams, regardless of whether they won their conference, it would likely lead to more "competitive" first-round games.
Consider this: Penn State finished at No. 4 in the final rankings. It's possible the Nittany Lions would've had a bye, and it may have been Boise State or Arizona State hosting this game insteaad. It's even more likely an 11-1 Notre Dame would've finished in the top four, if it were eligible, and would've had a first-round bye, so it would've been somebody else hosting Indiana during Friday night's blowout.
Regardless of hypotheticals, the greater point is this: The expanded playoff is here, and it's not going anywhere. Instead of arguing about which teams should've been in it this year, let's focus on creating the best product we can in the future.
One of the downsides of the College Football Playoff is that a team can have a great season and surpass all expectations, but the only thing most people will remember is the final game of the year. Kevin Jennings would like to forget it.
The truth is, SMU isn't in the playoff if not for Jennings. He began the season as the backup but replaced Preston Stone and immediately reinvigorated this team, leading it to the ACC Championship Game and to the playoff with his arm and legs.
But he did not have it today. I don't know that the cold weather is to blame, but Jennings did not look comfortable early, and it led to the pick sixes. After that, I don't care who you are, it's tough to recover the confidence needed to excel at the QB position -- and Jennings never did.
Jennings finished with 195 yards passing and a touchdown, but much of it came after the outcome was decided. He offered nothing with his legs, finishing with -25 yards passing. It was clear Penn State was determined to keep Jennings in the pocket, and the plan was successful. Immediate pressure penned Jennings in and forced him into bad throws.
He will return next season, though, and he'll have much better days than the one he had today.
Penn State's defense has been phenomenal all season, but this performance was one of the best it's had all year. While the turnovers were huge, the Nittany Lions held SMU to only 253 yards of offense in the game, and 42 of those yards came on a touchdown drive late when Penn State was up 38-3. 
Dani Dennis-Sutton finished with 1.5 sacks, and Abdul Carter had a sack with an offensive lineman putting him in a chokehold that resulted in an 18-yard loss and missed field goal. Kobe King led the way with eight tackles and, of course, there were the two pick sixes and two interceptions by Dom DeLuca.
In other words, the unit excelled at every level, which has been the case throughout most of the season. As long as it plays the way it did today, Penn State is a threat to make a run deep into the playoff.
It was a white out for Penn State and a wipe out for SMU.
The (6) Nittany Lions cruised to a 38-10 win over (11) SMU to move on to the next round of the College Football Playoff. The Nittany Lions overcame a sluggish start on offense thanks to a defense that had not one, but two pick-sixes in the first 17 minutes of action to stake the offense to a 14-0 lead.
Penn State's defense would not relent through the rest of the game, and its offense eventually helped out. Due to the game script, quarterback Drew Allar and the passing game weren't asked to do much, but running backs Kaytron Allen and Nick Singleton didn't mind carrying the load. Penn State finished the day with 189 yards rushing while averaging 5.6 yards per carry minus three sacks. Singleton led the way with 89 yards on 13 carries with a touchdown, while Allen had 70 on 11 with two scores.
All-world everyman Tyler Warren had a quiet day, rushing once for six yards and catching four passes for 33 yards.
As for SMU, it was an absolute nightmare of a performance. The two pick-sixes from quarterback Kevin Jennings weren't his only turnovers in the game; he threw a third interception with SMU in the red zone that killed a scoring chance that could've cut into Penn State's lead in the first half. Jennings was under immediate pressure on seemingly every snap throughout the afternoon, and at times it felt like he was looking for the oncoming blitzer instead of his receivers.
And for good reason. The Penn State defense finished with three sacks and 11 tackles for loss while holding SMU to 3.5 yards per play. The result was the worst performance we've seen from the SMU offense all season. The Mustangs had managed to score at least 28 points in 11 of their 12 games this season. The only time they failed to do so before today was in an 18-15 loss to BYU in September.
Penn State will face Boise State at the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Eve.
It's far too little, and it's certainly too late, but SMU has scored a touchdown. Kevin Jennings hits Roderick Daniels for a 28-yard touchdown to get the Mustangs their first touchdown of the day following a Penn State turnover.
We'll ignore that the Nittany Lions removed their starters on offense during their last possession and that it was backup Ethan Grunkemeyer who threw the interception.
Penn State decided to give the SMU defense a steady dose of its run game, and it proved pretty danged effective. Kaytron Allen's 4-yard touchdown run capped off a 75-yard touchdown drive full of handoffs to Allen and Nick Singleton.
Penn State is now up to 174 yards rushing as a team, averaging 5.6 yards per carry. Nick Singleton has 88 yards on 12 carries while Kaytron Allen has 70 on 11.
The shutout may be over, but the rout continues at Beaver Stadium. SMU's offense played well in the third quarter, picking up 77 yards, and had two firsts-and-goal, but neither ended in a touchdown. In fact, both went backwards, with one ending in a 28-yard field goal and the other with a missed 42-yard attempt.
Meanwhile, Penn State looks content handing the ball off to Nick Singleton and Kaytron Allen to finish this out, and I don't blame them. SMU defenders don't look all that interested in sacrificing themselves to make tackles at the moment.
It's enough to make you wonder if Penn State's current possession -- it will begin the fourth at the SMU 37 -- will be the final one that includes Penn State's starters.
The Mustangs get another excellent drive and another first-and-goal. And, like the last drive, they do nothing but go backward. The killer was Kevin Jennings taking an 18-yard loss on a sack on third-and-goal which led to a 42-yard field goal attempt that comes up short.
It's still 31-3 late in the third.
SMU went with a surprise onside kick attempt following the field goal, which wasn't much of a surprise considering, you know, they were down 25 points. That set up Penn State with great field position, and while the Nittany Lions didn't do much outside of one Nick Singleton run, they erased SMU's field goal with one of their own.
It's a 28-point game again with 8:13 left in the third.
SMU gets a 28-yard field goal for its first points of the game, but it's a disappointment. The Mustangs had a first-and-goal from the 5-yard line and then went backwards six yards and had to settle for the short kick.
It's nice to no longer be getting shutout, but those 3 points don't do much to change the situation.
Brashard Smith's 41-yard return on the kickoff has SMU at midfield to start their opening drive of the second half. Here's hoping these final 30 minutes are more competitive than the first were.
Penn State appears to be well on its way to a date with Boise State at the Fiesta Bowl on New Year's Eve. The Nittany Lions hold a commanding 28-0 lead over SMU at halftime. It's been every bit as one-sided as the score suggests, and it's because of SMU turnovers.
Not only has SMU quarterback Kevin Jennings thrown three interceptions -- two of which were pick sixes -- but the Mustangs offense has turned the ball over on downs on two other possessions. One of which came with the Mustangs in the red zone early in the first quarter.
The Penn State offense was stuck in the (frozen) mud during the first quarter, and into the second, but the SMU defense broke late, and the Nittany Lions scored touchdowns on their final two possessions of the half. 
Drew Allar has thrown for 106 yards, while both Nick Singleton and Kaytron Allen have scored rushing touchdowns to lead the way for Penn State's offense. Still, it's the Penn State defense that's been the star. Dom DeLuca has two of the team's three interceptions, and Penn State has two sacks and six tackles for loss already.
SMU will start the third quarter with the ball, and pardon me for being obvious here, but it's pretty important they get a touchdown on it. If they don't, its already slim chances of coming back are probably gone.
The rout is on. Penn State follows the SMU turnover on downs with a quick touchdown drive just before the half to go up 28-0. Nick Singleton caps the 38-yard drive with a score from a yard out.
After managing only 83 yards and non points on their first four possessions, Penn State has picked up 113 yards and 14 points on its last two.
Now, I will remind you that SMU was down 17 points to Clemson in the ACC Championship and came all the way back to tie the game. That said, Clemson isn't as good as Penn State, and that 17-point deficit was 11 points fewer than the one the Mustangs face right now!
You certainly understand the decision to go for it on fourth down given the current score and game state, but it all feels so futile. Jennings is sacked by Dani Dennis-Sutton on fourth down and Penn State has excellent field position in SMU territory.
The Nittany Lions have an excellent chance to go up four touchdowns before halftime.
Penn State's offense hadn't done much for the first 20 minutes of game action, but it was only a matter of time before the Nittany Lions broke through. The time has come.
Kaytron Allen's 25-yard touchdown run caps a nine-play, 75-yard touchdown drive that saw Drew Allar finally settle into the game. Allar was able to extend plays in the pocket and find receivers to extend the drive on third down, and picked up yards with his legs too.
It's 21-0 Penn State, and it's fair to wonder how much belief remains on the SMU sideline.
SMU takes advantage of the Penn State idiocy by getting a first-and-goal, but on second down, Kevin Jennings' pass is batted in the air and picked off by Dom DeLuca. Again. It's Jennings' third interception of the first half, and DeLuca's second.
If there's a silver lining for SMU at least Penn State didn't return this one for a touchdown.
The first half has been an absolute nightmare for Jennings and the Mustangs. You have to wonder if SMU might turn to Preston Stone.
Facing a fourth-and-1 at their own 19-yard line, and up two scores against a team that can't do anything on offense, James Franklin decides to go for it. Drew Allar is stopped short on a QB sneak, and it's a turnover on downs that hands the ball to SMU in the red zone.
I truly have no idea why Penn State did that. It's an awful decision.
The Mustangs manage to pick up a first down and get to midfield, but are forced to punt after finding themselves in another third-and-long that leads to an incompletion. The Mustangs just can't get anything going on the ground, which keeps putting them behind the chains, and it's not where this offense is at its best.
Factor in that Kevin Jennings looks uncomfortable, and his confidence has to be hurting after two pick-sixes, and it's not an encouraging situation. The Mustangs desperately need their defense to make a play.
Another absolute disaster from SMU QB Kevin Jennings, who is not handling the cold weather at all. After SMU is forced to use its second timeout of the half because of crowd noice, Jennings was able to buy time, but made an awful throw while rolling to his right that hit Penn State's Tony Rojas directly in the chest.
Rojas then made his way 59 yards to the end zone and it's 14-0 Penn State, with both touchdowns coming via pick sixes.
Penn State has an early 7-0 lead on SMU through a quarter that hasn't seen much offense from either side. The lone touchdown in the game came via Penn State's defense when linebacker Dom DeLuca picked off a pass from SMU's Kevin Jennings and took it 23 yards to the house.
SMU got off to a great start, moving the ball downfield thanks to a mixture of tempo and a pass interference, but Kevin Jennings made the wrong decision and threw an incomplete pass on fourth down when he could've picked up the first with his legs. 
Penn State hasn't done much better, and turned the ball over on downs itself late in the first quarter.
The two offenses have combined to average 4.1 yards per play. The cold is affecting everybody but the defenses so far.
An excellent job by the SMU defense disguising its blitz on third down, which leads to confusion. Drew Allar moves Nick Singleton to his left to pass block and then a blitz comes from the right to get home.
Penn State goes for it on fourth because, well, you try kicking a long field goal in the cold and wind. Allar is pressured again, his pass is incomplete, and it's SMU ball at the 29.
While SMU's first possession showed promise, things have gone the opposite direction since the turnover on downs. SMU responds to the pick six by going three and out and shanking a punt 25 yards. Penn State gets the ball at its 32-yard line.
It has not been a pretty offensive game by either side so far. Neither QB looks very comfortable in the cold, and the run games aren't finding much traction against these defenses. 
That was absolutely the last thing SMU needed. After a run on 1st down is stonewalled, Kevin Jennings drops back to throw on second down, and his pass sails over his target's head into the waiting arms of Dominic DeLuca, who houses it 23 yards for six.
It's 7-0 Penn State.
Drew Allar doesn't look comfortable. He was indecisive on the first possession, and still looked indecisive on the second, though the Nittany Lions had more success moving the ball this time. Still, on third-and-8, Allar's pass is well wide of his target, and the Lions are forced to punt.
SMU starts its second possession at the SMU 20.
The bad news for SMU is that its decision on fourth down didn't work out. Kevin Jennings bootlegged and could've picked up a first with his legs but saw Matthew Hibner open downfield, so he threw to him, but the ball was jarred loose by a big hit.
The good news is that while the Mustangs came up empty, they moved the ball pretty well, and their early tempo caused problems for the Penn State defense. Still, you'd have liked it to end with points if you're the Mustangs. Instead it's Penn State ball at the 20.
Two quick completions to set up a third and short, but Drew Allar can't find anybody on third down. Seemed a bit hesitant. It looked like he could've hit Kaytron Allen on a dump-off to pick up the first, or scramble for it, but his indecision took away both options.
SMU starts at its 32 following the punt.
SMU won the toss, deferred, and Penn State will begin at the PSU 30-yard line.
We've got three playoff games to get through today, folks. Let's hope this first one sets the tone for an outstanding day of football.
The current forecast for today's game has temperatures in the mid-20s, but with a steady wind that'll make it feel closer to 15 degrees for those in Beaver Stadium. However, if you were hoping for a snow game, odds are we won't see one today. While there's a chance of snow, it won't be enough to have an impact on the game itself.
As for how the cold can impact a game, while we make a big deal about teams like SMU coming north from Texas to play in this weather, it's important to remember Penn State has never played a home game this late in December, either! It's not like the Nittany Lions play in this weather frequently!
The cold and wind has a greater impact on special teams as far as performance is concerned. The passing offenses will be effected by the wind too, and the ball could be a little more difficult to catch if it's "harder" than usual. Other than that, the cold is more of a mental test than anything.


© 2004-2024 CBS Interactive. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

CBS Sports is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting Inc. Commissioner.com is a registered trademark of CBS Interactive Inc.

The content on this site is for entertainment purposes only and CBS Sports makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy of the information given or the outcome of any game or event. There is no gambling offered on this site. This site contains commercial content and CBS Sports may be compensated for the links provided on this site.

Images by Getty Images and Imagn