Steelers.com
Injuries are rearing their ugly head for the Steelers today, as the list of inactives includes players who have been on the injury list all week.
The Steelers will be without safety DeShon Elliott, quarterback Justin Fields, cornerback Donte Jackson, defensive lineman Larry Ogunjobi and receiver George Pickens today when they take on the Baltimore Ravens at M&T Bank Stadium.
It's not good timing to be without so many key players, as a win today would secure the AFC North title for the Steelers.
The Steelers were without Pickens the last two weeks as he has been dealing with a hamstring injury.
Offensive coordinator Arthur Smith knows teams will defend against them differently without Pickens, but they just have to be ready for it.
"Probably changes their calls schematically, and that is your job," said Smith. "Nobody cares. Nobody is feeling sorry for you on the other side. You have to have the mindset nobody is coming to rescue you.
"I think sometimes in this league you want your best players out there. When they're not, what are you going to do about it? I think sometimes people fall into that victimhood of complaining and whining. That ball is kicking off at 4:30, whatever time on Saturday, and we got to go win. We've got to be better at the things we can all do.
"Sometimes change up some scheme things or sometimes just as simple as executing a better block up front or running a better route or delivering a better ball.
"A lot goes into it. Obviously like to have everybody. That's not the reality. You've got to find a way to problem solve."
Elliott missed last week's game against the Eagles, and without him this week it will create some changes on the defense just like it did last week.
"It's changes us a little bit in terms of job description and who does what, but in terms of structure, didn't change us a ton," said defensive coordinator Teryl Austin. "The biggest thing with him, though, is in terms of how physical he plays and the temperament he brings and the things he does in the run game are pretty exceptional. I think the guy has been having a great year.
"We know all about T.J. and those guys. But I think quietly this guy has been having an outstanding yeah, really top-notch."
While Austin classifies him as having a top-notch season, he also understands the next man up mentality has to be in play.
"It's kind of what the NFL is all about," said Austin. "You're going to lose guys from time to time. The guys behind, we have confidence in them coming in and playing and being able to hold the job down and get it done.
"Doesn't mean they'll get it done the same way. Nevertheless, counting on them to get it done. That's how we'll move forward. We don't have a pity party because we are losing somebody. Everybody is missing people at this point of the year.
"The biggest thing is how do the guys that have to step into roles, how do they do when their opportunity is presented to them."
The full list of inactives is below.
Steelers Inactives
No. 2 QB Justin Fields
No. 14 WR George Pickens
No. 25 S DeShon Elliott
No. 26 CB Donte Jackson
No. 99 DT Larry Ogunjobi
Ravens Inactives
No. 5 CB Jalyn Armour-Davis
No. 15 WR Nelson Agholor
No. 32 FS Marcus Williams
No. 34 RB Keaton Mitchell
No. 50 OLB Adisa Isaac
No. 61 C Nick Samac
Bringing you the action: For fans who don't want to miss any of the action, NFL+ is here, which means you can now watch the Steelers live and on the go! Watch live local and primetime regular season games on mobile, plus NFL RedZone, NFL Network, live audio and more - all in one place.
**Sign up today**.
Find out who won't play tonight as the Steelers take on the Philadelphia Eagles from Lincoln Financial Field
Find out who won't play tonight as the Steelers take on the Cleveland Browns from Acrisure Stadium
Find out who won't play tonight as the Steelers take on the Cincinnati Bengals from Paycor Stadium
Find out who won't play tonight as the Steelers take on the Cleveland Browns from 
Huntington Bank Field
Find out who won't play today as the Steelers take on the Baltimore Ravens at Acrisure Stadium
Find out who won't play tonight as the Steelers take on the Washington Commanders at Northwest Stadium
Find out who won't play tonight as the Steelers take on the New York Giants at Acrisure Stadium
Find out who won't play tonight as the Steelers take on the New York Jets at Acrisure Stadium
Find out who won't play today as the Steelers take on the Las Vegas Raiders from Allegiant Stadium
Find out who won't play today as the Steelers take on the Dallas Cowboys from Acrisure Stadium
Find out who won't play today as the Steelers take on the Indianapolis Colts at Lucas Oil Stadium

    © 2024 Pittsburgh Steelers. All Rights Reserved
  