It won’t give him the PGA Tour wins record, but Tiger Woods is in position for another victory.
Making his first competitive appearance since the Open Championship in July, Woods and son Charlie teamed up for a 13-under 59 Saturday in the scramble format at the PNC Championship to take a share of the first-round lead with the Langers and Singhs.
Tiger and Charlie Woods have played the PNC every year since 2020 but are yet to win. 
This is the first time they’ve held the lead after any round.
“To be able to have these experiences with Charlie and walk inside the ropes – normally, the banter is against each other, each and every day, but this week it’s for each other,” Tiger said. “We’re just rooting so hard for each of us to pull off the shot that we want.”
The duo (and with Tiger’s daughter Sam on the bag) combined for 13 birdies, including five in a row on the back nine, and didn’t drop a shot in the best-ball format at the Ritz Carlton Golf Club in Orlando, Florida.
Coming off his sixth back procedure, Woods swung without limitation and, if his partner was in trouble, routinely hit the momentum-sustaining shot. Charlie, a high school sophomore, got hot with the putter in the middle of the round to compliment a few of his booming drives.
“I’m a great cheerleader,” Tiger said.
Asked what he needs to do Sunday, Charlie said: “Just have fun. I feel like that’s where I’ve struggled; just get too focused on the game. Just have fun and trust it.”
The PNC is an unofficial team event. Woods, however, is looking for his first victory, anywhere, since the Zozo Championship in fall 2019, the 82nd title of his PGA Tour career.
“We’re right there,” Tiger said. “There’s a bunch of teams that are up there. We’re going to have to shoot another good round tomorrow.”
A Division of NBCUniversal.
DISCLAIMER: This site and the products offered are for entertainment purposes only, and there is no gambling offered on this site. This service is intended for adult audiences. No guarantees are made for any specific outcome. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, please call 1-800-GAMBLER.
Ⓒ 2024 NBC Universal