One player who recently refused to play became a pariah. The other could be a hot property.
The Ravens waived receiver Diontae Johnson on Friday. On Saturday, reports began to emerge regarding possible destinations.
Some reports indicate he could be claimed on waivers. Possible destinations include the Chiefs, Steelers, and Chargers.
The Steelers traded Johnson to the Panthers in March 2024. The Panthers traded him to the Ravens in October. After Johnson refused to enter a Week 13 game against the Eagles, the Ravens suspended Johnson one game, for conduct detrimental to the team.
The official transaction report from Friday shows that the Ravens and Johnson reached a non-injury settlement. That means Johnson gave something up to get out of Baltimore. Possible concessions include, for example, waiving termination pay and rescinding any grievance he might have filed in response to his suspension. Since the Ravens also could have attacked a portion of the bonus money previously paid to Johnson by other teams, the release might have included a partial refund to the Ravens.
The Ravens presumably don’t want to see Johnson boost the prospects of another AFC contender. The Chargers, Steelers, and Chiefs will be low on the waiver priority order. Anyone could claim him, if only for a two-week look-see before he becomes a free agent in March.
Also, having him leave via free agency could boost his team’s compensatory draft picks for 2026.
Meanwhile, 49ers linebacker De’Vondre Campbell won’t be getting a chance to get another chance. He’s been suspended through the end of the regular season. Even if he was available, the strong comments from multiple San Francisco teammates could make it harder for him to land with a new team.
A Division of NBCUniversal.
DISCLAIMER: This site and the products offered are for entertainment purposes only, and there is no gambling offered on this site. This service is intended for adult audiences. No guarantees are made for any specific outcome. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, please call 1-800-GAMBLER.
Ⓒ 2024 NBC Universal