Tom Hiddleston will return to the role of Jonathan Pine in 2025 with 'Night Manager.'

As always, it’ll be a busy year for the BBC. The corporation has released a partial TV slate for 2025.

A list of 28 shows — some new, and some more familiar — premiering next year are detailed below, including the return of Tom Hiddleston in The Night Manager, Ncuti Gatwa in the 15th series of Doctor Who, an Austen-themed period piece with Keeley Hawes and Rose Leslie and the season two of SAS Rogue Heroes following season one’s cliffhanger ending.

A program on the Pan Am flight bombing in Lockerbie, Scotland, as well as a sparkling new Agatha Christie adaptation and the latest material from BAFTA-winning Sally Wainwright, are also included.

Read below The Hollywood Reporter‘s list of 28 shows coming to the BBC next year. Unless specified, exact release dates are yet to be revealed.

SAS Rogue Heroes (Season 2)

Created by Steven Knight (Peaky Blinders) and made by production company Kudos (a Banijay U.K. company), series two rejoins the troops in the spring of 1943. Paddy Mayne takes control of the SAS following David Stirling’s (Connor Swindells) capture, as attention turns from the conflict in North Africa to mainland Europe. But GHQ have cast doubt over the future of the regiment, while the creation of a second unit and an influx of new arrivals make things even more difficult for the men.

All episodes on BBC iPlayer from 6 a.m. London time Jan. 1, and on BBC One from 9 p.m. In the U.S., SAS Rogue Heroes season two will be available on Prime Video.

Swindells as David Stirling in ‘SAS Rogue Heroes’ season 2. BBC

Miss Austen

Miss Austen takes a literary mystery, Cassandra Austen, notoriously burning her famous sister Jane’s letters and reimagines it as witty and heart-breaking story of sisterly love, while creating in Cassandra a new Austen heroine. With Keeley Hawes, Rose Leslie, Alfred Enoch and more.

Coming to BBC iPlayer, BBC One and in the U.S. on Masterpiece in May 2025.

King and Conqueror

Starring James Norton and Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, King and Conqueror is the story of a clash that defined the future of a country — and continent — for a thousand years. Harold of Wessex and William of Normandy were two men destined to meet at the Battle of Hastings in 1066; two allies with no design on the British throne, who found themselves forced by circumstance and personal obsession into a war for possession of its crown.

Towards Zero

Featuring coastal views, heated summer soirees, and a trip to Wimbledon Centre Court, the latest imagery from Agatha Christie’s Towards Zero give a first glimpse at Lady Tressilian (Anjelica Huston), Inspector Leach (Matthew Rhys) and British tennis star Nevile Strange (Oliver Jackson-Cohen), seen with the two ladies in his life: ex-wife Audrey (Ella Lily Hyland) and new partner Kay (Mimi Keene).

With unfinished business between the former childhood sweethearts, plus the presence of Nevile’s new wife, tensions are running high. Add to this a long-suffering lady’s companion, a mysterious gentleman’s valet, an exiled cousin with a grudge, a venerable family lawyer, an inquisitive orphan and a French con man, and soon there will be murder. A troubled detective must rediscover his purpose to untangle a toxic web of jealousy, deceit and dysfunction. Can he solve the crime before another victim meets their death?

Towards Zero will air on the BBC and Britbox.

Oliver Jackson-Cohen and Mimi Keene as Nevile Strange and Kay Elliott in ‘Towards Zero’. BBC/Mammoth Screen/Nick Wall

Virdee

When a murderer kidnaps a local police chief’s son and holds the entire city to ransom, Harry (Staz Nair) realizes that he is going to need the help of his brother-in-law Riaz (Vikash Bhai), a drugs kingpin who runs the largest cartel in the county. Pulled together in an alliance that could ruin them both, Harry must make a choice: save himself and his family or save his city. He will not be able to do both.

Coming to BBC iPlayer and BBC One early 2025.

The Gold (Season 2)

Following the conviction of some of those involved in the theft and handling of the Brink’s-Mat gold, the police (Hugh Bonneville, Charlotte Spencer, Emun Elliot) realized that those criminals only ever had half of it. Series two explores what happened to the other half, and the criminal fortune it created. As the police investigation continues, it becomes a tense, high-stakes journey into international money laundering and organised crime, while the police embark on dramatic manhunts as they desperately try to solve the longest and most expensive investigation in the history of the Metropolitan Police.

Season two of The Gold will air on the BBC in the U.K. and PBS in the U.S.

Boarders (Season 2)

Boarders follows five talented, Black inner-city teens transported to an alien world — a British boarding school — after gaining scholarships to the prestigious St. Gilbert’s. They set out to make the most out of the opportunity, despite their places only being offered as a poorly-disguised PR exercise to improve the reputation of the school. Series two sees a new era for St Gilbert’s, with headmaster Bernard, who had brought the scholarship students into the school, suspended following a school rebellion. Now acting headmistress Carol Watlington-Geese (who also happens to be the mother of Jaheim’s nemesis Rupert) is at the helm, and she wants them gone.

Season two of Boarders will air on the BBC and on Tubi for those in the U.S.

Riot Women

From the multi-BAFTA award-winning Sally Wainwright, Riot Woman centers on the lives of five women of a certain age who come together to create a makeshift, butt-of-the-joke punk-rock band in order to enter a talent contest, but when they rehearse together they suddenly discover that they have a lot more to say than they ever imagined, and this is the way to say it.

Joanna Scanlan (After Love, The Thick of It) will lead the cast as Beth, along with Rosalie Craig (Moonflower Murders, Serpent Queen) as Kitty, Tamsin Greig (Sexy Beast, The Completely Made Up Adventures of Dick Turpin) as Holly, Lorraine Ashbourne (Sherwood, Alma’s Not Normal) as Jess, and Amelia Bullmore (The Buccaneers, Vienna Blood) as Yvonne.

Riot Women will land on the BBC and BBC iPlayer next year. BritBox will air the series in the U.S. and Canada.

The Night Manager (Season 2)

The BBC confirmed that the award-winning, global ratings hit drama The Night Manager will return for two new series’, with the next instalment due on BBC iPlayer and BBC One in 2025. The Night Manager will pick up with everyone’s favorite spy, Jonathan Pine (Tom Hiddleston) eight years after the explosive finale of season one. Olivia Colman and Alistair Petrie are also to return.

The Night Manager will air on Prime Video for those outside the U.K.

Olivia Colman in season 1 of ‘The Night Manager’. Courtesy of Mitch Jenkins/The Ink Factory/AMC

Dope Girls

It is the end of World War I. As Britain celebrates the Armistice on the streets of London, men return from the front expecting to rejoin society and pick up where they left off — but a newly empowered generation of women are loath to simply return to the kitchen.

Lockerbie

On December 21 1988, flight Pan Am 103 was en route from Heathrow to JFK when a bomb exploded in its hold over the small Scottish town of Lockerbie, killing 270 people, including 43 British citizens and 190 Americans. It was the worst-ever terror attack on British soil and the first major one on U.S. citizens. Lockerbie will focus on the investigation into the crash on both sides of the Atlantic and the devastating effect it had on the small town and the families who lost loved ones.

The cast includes Connor Swindells (SAS Rogue Heroes, Sex Education), Patrick J. Adams (Suits, A League of Their Own), Merritt Wever (Unbelievable, Godless), Peter Mullan (Ozark, Payback), Tony Curran (Mary & George, Mayflies) and Eddie Marsan (Ridley Road, The Pact).

Lockerbie will be available on Netflix in 2025.

Reunion

Reunion features Brennan (Matthew Gurney), who embodies the struggle of a man caught between two worlds, unable to fully integrate into the hearing world and shunned by the deaf community. Amidst this isolation, Brennan’s only meaningful relationship is with his estranged daughter, who he hasn’t seen in over a decade while he’s been in prison.

Untitled Jimmy McGovern project

Set and filmed in Liverpool, the fictional drama centers around the Mitchell family who are dealing with the devastating aftermath of an act of abuse, and the knowledge that it was perpetrated by a member of their own family who, after serving his sentence, has just been released from prison.

The City is Ours

This City is Ours is the story of Michael (James Nelson-Joyce), a man who, for all of his adult life, has been involved in organized crime, working for his friend and the gang leader Ronnie (Sean Bean). When Ronnie begins to hint at retirement, Michael too begins to imagine another life. Because, for the first time in his life, Michael is in love. He now sees beyond the day-to-day, he sees a future: something to win and something to lose — Diana (Hannah Onslow).

We Go Again (w/t)

An irreverent portrait of black working-class teenage life, We Go Again is coming-of-age story of sorts. The first times; the fuck-ups and the excruciating desire to be more grown-up than you are or that you might be ready for. It’s a celebration of black joy; of council estates and corner shops, of working-class living and working-class dreams.

Film Club

Friday night. 7pm. Film Club Week 198. Evie (Aimee Lou Wood) hasn’t left the house in six months after a “wobble”, and Film Club is her escape. A weekly chance to create a world of wonder, deck the garage out in whatever the movie calls for and spend a few uninterrupted hours with Noa (Nabhaan Rizwan) — her best friend and one of the few mates who still shows up. But tonight, things are different. Noa’s got big news. A dream job is taking him across the other side of the country, which means that all of this is ending. As if life weren’t challenging enough already, Evie is going to be navigating this amongst the eccentricity of her family home, living with her fiercely loving single mum Suz (Suranne Jones), sister Izzie (Liv Hill), and handsome boyfriend (sometime man of the house) Josh (Adam Long).

‘Marie Antoinette’ BBC

Marie Antoinette (Season 2)

At the height of their power, while Marie Antoinette and Louis face an unprecedented financial crisis, the incessant attacks of Provence and Chartres against the royal couple stir up the hatred of the nobles while disastrous consequences are looming with the infamous Affair of the Diamond Necklace incident. From Versailles to the Palais-Royal, the revolt rumbles.

Season two of Marie Antoinette will be available on PBS for viewers in the States.

Lynley

Tommy Lynley (Leo Suter) is a brilliant police detective but an outsider in the force, simply by virtue of his aristocratic upbringing. He is paired with Barbara Havers (Sofia Barclay), a sergeant with a maverick attitude and a working-class background. With seemingly nothing in common and against all odds, the mismatched duo of Lynley and Havers become a formidable team, bonded by their desire to see justice done.

Wild Cherry

From BAFTA winner Nicôle Lecky, Wild Cherry centers on Lorna (Carmen Ejogo), a self-made, successful black businesswoman from South London who has worked hard to be where she is and best friend Juliet (Eve Best), a woman born into the privileged gated community they both call home. Daughters Grace (Imogen Faires) and Allegra (Amelia May) ar also best friends and live a life other teenagers can only dream of. A safe haven for the super-rich and their little darlings, Richford Estate is a place where bad things never happen, until, that is, Grace and Allegra are implicated in a shocking scandal at their exclusive private school.

Silent Witness (Season 28)

The new series of the British crime drama opens with a disturbing mystery, when the death of an elderly woman found in a cave has the team asking what drives a person to murder someone so vulnerable.

All seasons of Silent Witness are on Prime Video and Britbox.

Dr Nikki Alexander (Emilia Fox), Dr Simone Tyler (Genesis Lynea), Jack Hodgeson (David Caves) in ‘Silent Witness’. BBC

Waterloo Road (Season 15)

Once at the top of the Ofsted ranks, Dame Stella (Lindsey Coulson) found herself knocked off her pedestal thanks to her cutting words about parental incompetence going viral, but her uncompromising work ethic, strict moral compass and no-nonsense approach makes her the perfect candidate to reform Waterloo Road. Stella joins the school as the students become increasingly unruly following the effects of last term and she soon feels out of date as she clashes with the school’s modern pastoral approach.

Stella might have the students’ best interests at heart but soon, her personal life spills over into the professional and fans will be left wondering: what skeletons is she hiding?

Seasons of Waterloo Road are available to watch on Prime Video.

Casualty (Season 39)

Casualty, the world’s longest-running primetime medical drama, is a BBC Studios Drama production for BBC iPlayer and BBC One. The show is set in the fictional Holby City Hospital, focusing on the staff and patients in the Accident and Emergency (A&E) Department.

You can watch all seasons of Casualty on Prime Video in the U.S.

Shetland (Season 9)

Shetland, a Scottish crime drama starring Ashley Jensen (Ugly Betty) and Alison O’Donnell, will return with a new series in 2025.

Shetland will air on the BBC, BritBox, and Prime Video.

Russell T. Davies returns to the Doctor Who universe with a 15th season starring Sex Education breakout Ncuti Gatwa. This Christmas, an hour-long, annual special will feature Bridgerton‘s Nicola Coughlan as it reteams the Fifteenth Doctor, writer Steven Moffat and showrunner Davies.

You can watch Doctor Who on Disney+ in the U.S.

The Doctor (Ncuti Gatwa), Joy (Nicola Couglan) and Hotel Manager (Jonathan Aris) in this year’s Christmas special. Disney+

EastEnders 40th Anniversary

London-set beloved soap EastEnders is going live for a full episode as part of its celebrations for its 40th anniversary, but this time with a twist as the audience will have the power to decide the outcome of one storyline.

Death in Paradise (Season 14)

Making his debut in a feature-length Christmas special in 2024, Don Gilet will lead the new series of Death In Paradise in 2025, playing Detective Inspector Mervin Wilson, who arrives on the idyllic island of Saint Marie from London, and is not overly pleased with his new surroundings.

You can watch Death in Paradise on the BBC and Britbox.

Beyond Paradise (Season 3)

Across the series, the Shipton Abbott police team continue to crack a host of mind-boggling and mysterious puzzles — including a death during a murder-mystery play on a steam train, a local fishing legend going missing at sea, and a medium predicting an arson attack — to ensure the station house remains open for the foreseeable future.

The third series will see the return of Kris Marshall as DI Humphrey Goodman, Sally Bretton as Martha Lloyd, Zahra Ahmadi as DS Esther Williams, Dylan Llewellyn as PC Kelby Hartford, Barbara Flynn as Anne Lloyd, Felicity Montagu as Margo Martins, Jade Harrison as CS Charlie Woods, and Melina Sinadinou as Zoe Williams. Jamie Bamber will also reprise his role as the charming Archie Hughes who is back following his departure from Shipton Abbott at the end of series one.

You can watch Beyond Paradise on the BBC and Britbox.

Call The Midwife (Season 14)

The midwives are back on our screens early next year. The popular medical drama follows the heartwarming tale of life in London’s impoverished East End, as a group of midwives welcome new lives and care for the community in the changing times of the 1950s and 1960s.

Call the Midwife season 14 will air on PBS and Netflix in the U.S.