The potential benefit of an engaged citizenry is particularly great in the United States, because America’s nonprofit sector is vast. Nearly 10 percent of our private work force is made up of people who work for nonprofit organizations. Many of those organizations rely on volunteers in addition to paid staff members. From universities to houses of worship to hospitals to soup kitchens, our civic organizations rely on engaged Americans in order to succeed and play a major role in our economy and society. A citizenry made up of people who think beyond the contours of their immediate lives and careers may not be sufficient to solve the tremendous problems we face. But I believe it is necessary.

What is more, I believe that engagement with the world makes life vastly more interesting, meaningful and enjoyable. Over the many decades of my adult life, I’ve always had an eclectic curiosity — I’m the kind of person who has three or four books on my night stand that I am reading at the same time, and they are almost never about economics or politics. In this way, I’ve explored many areas that were new and interesting and that, as a side benefit, have often given me a better understanding of human nature and the human psyche.

This remains true, even though my formal education ended when I graduated from law school 60 years ago. For example, about two years ago, I began to learn that artificial intelligence was developing rapidly and had the potential to reshape many aspects of our world, yet I didn’t know much about it. I suppose I could be forgiven for this: I was born in 1938. One of the major technological advancements that year was the invention of the practical ballpoint pen. But I was curious about this new development and the impacts it might have. So I began to take twice-weekly, one-hour tutorials with an exceedingly knowledgeable young man who works in that field.

While I’m still far from an expert on A.I., learning about this new technology has been highly interesting and helped me feel more connected with the developments shaping our world. And to the extent that artificial intelligence has come up in policy discussions, I’m able to make a more meaningful contribution than I would have been two years ago, so my curiosity has been at least somewhat helpful to others as well.

It’s now been more than half a century since I joined the board of the American Ballet Theater. Looking back, I see that engagement has allowed me, in some small way, to be more constructive both in my own activity and as a member of society while giving me the feeling of greater personal connection with forces shaping the times in which we live.