I first went into these churches determined in a sense of rebellion. I’d been a teen atheist in Catholic high school, and I’d joined the church choir out of sheer boredom. Now I go to church for real: once a week in the usual way, but still more often alone. At these times, I go insistent on the not. I bring no opinions, nothing certain; just me and the arc of the ceiling. And I go with a promise to myself: The moment it feels fake, I’m out the door.

Nothing will spoil the effect of this like going in search of an “experience,” or purposely setting out to pray. It’s a strange game of church-seeking and -sitting that I play — searching by not searching, hoping to catch something slanting in from the side, crabwise, or not at all.

In America these days, the front doors of churches are usually locked. But try the handle often enough, or go around to the side door, and you can find your way into various sorts of silences. Small churches in remote places are particularly good for this. A modest church in the Mississippi Delta padded with a thick, red pile carpet delivers one such silence. In New Orleans, there’s a German Catholic church first built in 1848, now deconsecrated; but its corners and corridors still hold a trace of what it once was.

Some large affairs, like St. Patrick’s Cathedral in Manhattan, remain naggingly commercial in affect: magisterium on ice. Other places accomplish more with half the effort: a storefront mosque in Genoa, its many rugs visible through a shop window; or a seaside Episcopal church on Dauphin Island, Alabama’s southernmost tip, with sea-humidified pews; or a neighborhood Greek Orthodox church in the Piraeus where the service starts before you are even aware of it — all these places collect something quiet that it is possible to witness, most especially when there is nothing particular to see.

Sometimes I’ll go to my own church, St. John the Divine in Upper Manhattan, one of the most beautiful cathedrals in the world, simply to find a good corner toward the back, the better to find a place to hide.